,health
0,"Basic medical care is available in major Afghan cities but is limited in rural areas. Facilities vary in quality and range of services and are generally below U.S. standards. Doctors and hospitals often require cash prepayment for services. Ambulances are few, lack medical equipment, and are not necessarily staffed by medical personnel. Western-style private clinics can be found in Kabul offering a variety of basic emergency and routine preventative-type care, but their hours are limited, and such facilities may not be suitable for complex trauma cases or severe medical emergencies. Individuals without licenses or medical degrees operate private clinics, and there is no public agency that monitors their operations. A list of Medical Clinics in Afghanistan is available on the U.S. Embassy’s website. Travelers are strongly urged to obtain sufficient supplies of prescription and commonly used over-the-counter medications prior to arrival. Many U.S.-brand medications are not available in Afghanistan. Travelers should be alert that many pharmaceuticals found in Afghanistan are counterfeits, and the quality of locally produced medications is uneven. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan will cover you outside of the United States, and specifically covers care when you are in Afghanistan, as many insurance companies consider the country to be an active warzone and specifically exclude coverage for individuals residing or traveling here. Please also note that U.S. Medicare does not pay overseas. U.S. citizens are strongly recommended to obtain supplemental medical evacuation insurance as medical transport out of Afghanistan can be prohibitively expensive. When selecting medical evacuation provider, be sure to confirm that the company offers such services in Afghanistan and obtain a list of clinics and hospitals that may be used as a medical evacuation point. Please note that the U.S. Embassy cannot pay your medical bills. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
1,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Albania. For emergency services in Albania, dial 112 for an ambulance. Dial 127 or 128 for the Fire Department. Not all operators have English, or may have limited ability in English, but will attempt to connect you with an English-speaking responder when possible. Ambulance services are not widely available and the training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend you obtain supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Albanian law prohibits the import and export of narcotic medications and psychotropic substances. For more information, visit the General Directorate of Customs website . The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for visitors to Albania. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air quality varies throughout Albania. Pollution can be a problem particularly in Tirana, and during certain times of year – such as winter, when wood or coal may be burned for heat. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Tirana and other cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack many basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always accepted. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may not speak English. Generally, public hospitals are minimally staff overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas In Albania, while many medicines are available without a prescription, certain pharmaceuticals may require a prescription from a physician and are sold only at specialized pharmacies. Some medications may not be available locally. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments recommended by a physician. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Albania to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Water Quality: Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are safe, although many restaurants and hotels may serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language: The following diseases are prevalent: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/destinations/traveler/none/albania"
2,"For emergency services in Algeria, dial 021711414. Ambulance services are available in major cities such as the capital city of Algiers, but training and availability of emergency responders varies and may be below U.S. standards. Ambulance services are also not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment.  Response times are unpredictable and not as rapid as in the U.S. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance.  Credit card payment is not usually available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment at time of services rendered. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates.  The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst in the summer. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities: Adequate health facilities are available in Algiers and other major cities, but quality is variable. Health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care primarily available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Algerian Ministry of Health [COUNTRY Federal Office of Public Health w/ link] to ensure the medication is legal in Algeria. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Algeria to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Algeria. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
3,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Andorra. Good medical care is available in Andorra. Regulations regarding medications may vary from those in the United States, however. Andorra relies on the Spanish and French postal systems. As Spanish and French regulations do not permit the international shipment of medication, please do not ship medication from the United States to Andorra as the package will transit through Spain or France and likely be intercepted. U.S. citizens who plan a lengthy trip to Andorra should bring their own medication or obtain a prescription for that medication from a local physician. The U.S. Consulate General maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. For emergency services in Andorra dial 112 . Ambulance services are widely available. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills for private U.S. citizens. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Andorra’s Health Department to ensure the medication is legal in Andorra. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Health facilities in general Adequate health facilities are available in Andorra La Vella but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, may be readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Andorra to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART), please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal in Andorra and subject to complex local regulation. Adventure Travel Andorra is a skiing and mountain climbing destination and offers adventure travel activities (See: https://visitandorra.com/es/naturaleza/naturaleza-de-aventura/ ). These meet WTO guidelines, and Andorra does not report major incidents in adventure travel activities. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
4,"Medical facilities and services, including emergency care, are severely limited outside of Luanda and do not meet U.S. standards. In the capital, some private clinics offer modern medical equipment, internationally trained staff, and 24-hour emergency services including ambulances, but quality and consistency of medical care varies greatly. These clinics typically require pre-payment before admission and do not accept international credit cards or private medical insurance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas and U.S. embassies and consulates do not cover medical bills. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most medical providers in Angola only accept cash payments and require pre-payment for service. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover air medical evacuation. Always carry prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Bring preventative and over-the-counter medicines. Check with the Embassy of Angola to verify your medications are legal before you travel. Consult the CDC website for Angola prior to travel. The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue fever Malaria Y ellow fever Other considerations are rabies, typhoid fever, traveler’s diarrhea, Chikugunya, Zika, marine hazards, Tuberculosis, Schistosomiasis, and Hepatitis C. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vaccinations against yellow fever are required. Further health information: World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
5,"Medical facilities in Anguilla do not meet U.S. standards. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills for overseas travelers. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Doctors and hospitals will expect immediate cash payment for health services. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Anguilla to ensure the medication is legal in Anguilla. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
6,"Antarctica has no public hospitals, pharmacies, or doctor’s offices.  Although cruise ships and land-based expeditions should have the capacity to treat minor ailments, medical emergencies often require evacuation to a country with modern medical facilities, which could require travel over a significant distance.  There is no guarantee that transportation would be available or that weather conditions would allow for transportation, even in an emergency. Search and rescue resources in Antarctica are extremely limited.   Cost of search and rescue efforts are borne by the person/s in need of the assistance.  Travelers should obtain comprehensive travel, medical, and medical evacuation insurance prior to departure; see our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . There are no public utilities, such as phone or Internet service providers, in the Region. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
7,"Medical facilities in Antigua and Barbuda do not meet U.S. standards. There is no hyperbaric chamber, and divers requiring treatment for decompression illness must be evacuated from the island. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Antigua and Barbuda to ensure the medication is legal in Antigua and Barbuda. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
8,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical evacuation is extremely costly. Medications: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Argentine Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Argentina.  Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Health Concerns: The following diseases are prevelant either throughout Argentina or in certain areas: Hepatitis A Yellow Fever Dengue Typhoid Rabies Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and CDC recommendations for travel to Argentina . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
9,"Outside major cities, medical facilities in Armenia are limited. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of English-speaking doctors. Elderly travelers and those with existing health problems may be at risk from inadequate medical facilities . For emergency services in Armenia, dial 911. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Armenia. The risk of diarrheal disease is high throughout Armenia. Food and water precautions are recommended. Additionally, cases of brucellosis from consuming unpasteurized dairy products have been reported. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas . Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons in Armenia. It is typically at its worst in the winter, with smog and particulate pollution in or near cities. Consider the impact air pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Health facilities in general Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Adequate health facilities are available in Yerevan and other major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Medical emergency services at Armenian airports are not on par with U.S. airports. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Armenia Ministry of Health or The National Institute of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Armenia. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Armenia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is legal for foreigners in Armenia. For additional information visit the website of Armenia’s Ministry of Health . Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
10,"Access to quality medical care is limited in Aruba, and facilities may not offer the health and service standards typically expected in the United States. There is no decompression chamber in Aruba. Persons suffering from decompression sickness must be medically evacuated for proper treatment. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. A list of medical facilities in Aruba is available on our Consulate website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Critically ill patients requiring services unavailable in Aruba are transferred to neighboring countries, such as Colombia, at the patient’s expense. If medical evacuation is authorized by the patient’s insurance carrier or funded privately (approximately $15,000 – 25,000), patients can be transferred to the United States. Medicines: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Aruba to ensure the medication is legal in Aruba. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The variety of drugs available locally is smaller than in the U.S., and you may not be able to find all of your medications in Aruba. For most medicines, you will need a local prescription. To find out which pharmacy is available after hours, you can visit pharmacy on duty in Aruba . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following diseases are prevalent: Zika Virus Dengue Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Aruba. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
11,"For emergency services in Australia, dial 000. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Excellent medical care is available in Australia. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. Serious medical problems requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the United States can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Prescriptions: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Australia to ensure the medication is legal in Australia . Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of hospitals and a link to the Australian National Health Services Directory at Medical Assistance - U.S. Embassy & Consulates in Australia (usembassy.gov) . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Australia. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem during certain months in Australia due to bush fires. Consider the impact seasonal bush fire season pollution may have on your health and consult your doctor before traveling. The air quality varies considerably and changes with the season. It is typically at its worst in the bush fire season. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
12,"Medical facilities and staff are generally excellent and emergency services are available countrywide. For general emergency services in Austria, dial 112. To call an ambulance, dial 144 . Ambulance services are widely available. Local hospitals will not settle accounts directly with American insurance companies. You must pay the hospital’s bill and later claim reimbursement from the insurance carrier in the United States. The Austrian Medicine Import Act prohibits the import of most prescription drugs into Austria. However, non- European Union residents are allowed medicines as part of their personal luggage, but only the quantity required for the period of time you’ll be in the country. Travelers may not receive medicine by mail from abroad while in Austria. If a particular medication is not available in Austria, an Austrian pharmacy may be able to order the medication prescribed by a local physician from a pharmacy in the United States. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most health care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals on its website . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Austrian Ministry for Health to ensure the medication is legal in Austria. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Health Facilities Austria has world class healthcare facilities throughout the country. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” or adequate health insurance prior to service or admission. Patients who need emergency or life-saving medical treatment will not be turned away for lack of payment or insurance. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Austria. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals Many medications that are common in the United States are illegal in Austria, even with a prescription. Austria does not allow the importation of any pharmaceuticals that contain narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. Obtaining such medications in Austria is either impossible or requires a diagnosis and prescription from an Austrian doctor. Please review the medication rules on the websites of the Austrian Embassy in Washington, D.C., and the Austrian Health Ministry . COVID-19 tests in Austria are widely available at local Apoteken (pharmacies), including rapid and PCR tests. U.S. citizens are responsible for paying for all costs upfront. Results are normally delivered by e-mail, test or you may request a physical copy from the lab. The COVID-19 vaccine is available free of charge for U.S. citizen residents of Austria and hold valid Austrian healthcare E-cards. U.S. citizen visitors may be required to pay vaccination costs upfront. Altitude Many cities in western Austria are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
13,"International SOS operates one medical clinic in Baku that provides adequate 24-hour care for minor medical problems and limited emergencies. We do not advise undergoing surgery in Azerbaijan unless it is for a life-and-death emergency. Bring adequate amounts of prescription medicine in its original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription for the duration of your visit, as pharmacies often do not carry all brands or doses. Dial the following numbers for the indicated emergencies in Azerbaijan: For emergency fire services, dial 101. For emergency police services, dial 102. For emergency medical services, dial 103. For emergency gas services, dial 104. For emergency electricity services, dial 199. For the State Migration Service, dial 919. For other miscellaneous emergency services, dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Ambulances are typically not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Embassy of Azerbaijan or the Azerbaijan Federal Office of Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in Azerbaijan. General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis HIV Hepatitis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Azerbaijan. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Baku and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment in advance. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Be aware that some hotels and resorts have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in Baku. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Azerbaijan imposes strict restrictions on the importation of many pain killers and other prescription narcotics available in the United States. Travelers should avoid carrying or shipping such medications. If travelers must bring such medications, they should bring diagnosis and prescription paperwork from a licensed practitioner in the United States. Air Quality: Detailed information on air quality is not available for Azerbaijan currently. Baku is estimated to have air pollution levels higher than those in major U.S. cities. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
14,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in The Bahamas. Medical care is available on New Providence and Grand Bahama islands. However, serious illnesses or injuries might not be treatable locally. Serious health problems requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the United States can cost tens of thousands of dollars in up-front costs. Outer islands have only small clinics, and medical care is limited. Ambulance service is available on the major islands, but traffic congestion on New Providence Island can cause delays. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of The Bahamas to ensure the medication is legal in The Bahamas. Always carry your prescription medication in its original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
15,"COVID-19 Testing: All COVID-19 testing is conducted at local health centers. The cost of the test can vary, and results are typically available electronically (email or text) or a physical copy can be picked up.  Some sites provide walk-in services with no appointment required, and the price typically varies based on how quickly the results will be available. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Bahrain. Primary healthcare centers providing the COVID-19 vaccines can be found on the Bahrain Ministry of Health's website . Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. For emergency services in Bahrain, dial 999. Ambulance services are Widely available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Payment at all medical facilities is due at the time of service. Some hospitals have very limited direct billing capability for certain insurance carriers.  Billing and insurance practices vary. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with Customs Affairs of Bahrain to ensure the medication is legal in Bahrain. Most narcotic painkillers, stimulants, and controlled sedatives/hypnotics are not easily available, and may be illegal.  Do not bring CBD oil or products to Bahrain. Basic medical care is available through public and private hospitals, as well as private clinics. In some facilities, the care is below U.S. standards. Public hospitals have trauma and Intensive Care Units. Most postoperative and trauma centers do not provide adequate pain management. People with chronic general medical or mental health conditions and HIV-related health issues may not be able to obtain appropriate emergency care in Bahrain. U.S. privacy and confidentiality laws may not apply to Bahraini medical providers. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
16,"For emergency services in Bangladesh, dial 999. Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. COVID-19 Testing: PCR and/or antigen tests are available for U.S. citizens in Bangladesh. The government of Bangladesh has provided a list of recommended COVID-19 testing facilities for international passengers here . Those wishing to get tested will have to pay for their own COVID-19 test.  Results are often delivered via text message and are, in most cases, linked to a QR code. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Bangladesh. The Government of Bangladesh started its national COVID-19 vaccination program in January 2021. The program includes AstraZeneca, Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Janssen (Johnson and Johnson), Sinopharm, and Sinovak vaccines. The Government of Bangladesh is now offering COVID-19 vaccines to those who do not have a Bangladesh national ID (NID) or a locally registered birth certificate, including all foreign nationals. Individuals who have yet to receive a vaccine are encouraged to call the Bangladesh Health hotline at 16263 to identify the nearest vaccine center.  Please carry a passport or another form of government-issued identification and be ready to provide a Bangladeshi mobile phone number. Those who do not have an NID or locally registered birth certificate may not register for a vaccine via the surokkha.gov.bd vaccine portal, and as a result, would be unable to receive a Bangladeshi vaccine certificate with a QR code. Anyone vaccinated at a vaccine center, however, will receive a handwritten vaccine card to carry as proof of vaccination against COVID-19. Those interested in obtaining a booster dose may follow the procedure described above and should be ready to present proof of previous vaccination against COVID-19. Individuals become eligible for a booster dose four months after their last dose is administered. This information is also available at the Directorate General for Health Services website . If any U.S. citizen wishes to register through the Surokkha website to get the QR coded vaccine certificate, they should follow the instructions below and provide the U.S. Embassy in Dhaka with all the required information so that we can forward it to the Bangladesh Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the purpose of vaccination against COVID-19. Visit the FDA’s website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure health insurance plans provide coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly advise supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical Care: Though quality of care is below U.S. standards, most common illnesses can be treated locally. U.S. citizens often travel outside Bangladesh for routine surgical procedures and complicated medical treatment. A centrally coordinated medical emergency response system is not available. A list of hospitals and doctors in Dhaka can be found on the U.S. Embassy website. Bangladesh has no prohibitions on specific medications. Always carry prescription medication in original packaging with a doctor’s prescription. The sale of counterfeit medications has been reported, but medications from major pharmacies and hospitals are generally reliable. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). In the past few years, a large number of both Chikungunya and Japanese Encephalitis cases has been reported. You should consider the Japanese Encephalitis vaccine for prevention. Dengue is endemic in Bangladesh and during the 2019 summer season, increased cases are being reported as compared to the last 5 years. Should you develop symptoms of fever, headache, rash, or muscle/joint aching, you should seek medical attention early in your illness. Malaria is reported in 13 districts in the northeast and southeast regions of Bangladesh. If planning travel there, you should consult with your physician regarding taking medication for malaria prophylaxis. The CDC also considers Bangladesh an area with risk of Zika infection, though it is uncommon. Pregnant women, travelers with a pregnant partner, and women considering becoming pregnant should speak to their healthcare provider about possible Zika risk before travel. Prevention is key: Regular use of insect repellent and long garments is recommended as protection against mosquito-borne illness. Water supplies in Bangladesh are non-potable. Bottled drinking water is generally safe for consumption. Foodborne illnesses are common. Wash, soak in sanitizing solution, peel, and thoroughly cook all food to minimize chemical, bacterial, and parasitic contamination. Air quality in Dhaka is consistently poor and especially hazardous from November to March. We recommend avoiding prolonged outdoor exposure during these months. N95 filtration masks/respirators that are NIOSH certified are helpful, but you need to have a good fit and seal when using them. Current Dhaka air quality can be found here . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
17,"Medical care is good for the region, but medical transport can take hours to respond, and ambulance attendants are prohibited from applying lifesaving techniques during transport. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Barbados to ensure the medication is legal in Barbados. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
18,"Medical care in Belarus is neither modern nor easily accessible. Hospitals and medical facilities are below U. S. standards and lack basic supplies. Trauma care is well below U.S. standards; Belarus lacks the level of care and competence to deal with serious injuries. Standard U.S. health insurance plans are not accepted in Belarus. Ambulances are poorly equipped and unreliable . It is not unusual to wait 30 minutes for an ambulance. Consider purchasing medical evacuation insurance prior to traveling to Belarus. There are no air ambulance services in Belarus. The government requires all visitors show evidence of valid purchase health insurance . You may purchase local health insurance at your point of entry. The medical emergency number for Belarus is 103 We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: The government requires all visitors to purchase local health insurance or show evidence of a policy with international coverage that includes Belarus. You may purchase the local health insurance at the points of entry. If you plan to use international medical insurance purchased outside Belarus, be sure to check with the Embassy of Belarus to be sure your policy is acceptable. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover a potential medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication: You must carry your prescription medication in the original packaging You should have the written prescription from your doctor. You should check with the government of Belarus, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure your medication is legal in Belarus. Some common medications in the U.S., such as opioid pain relievers, are illegal in Belarus. Belarusian officials have confiscated these drugs from travelers. The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis (TB) is an increasingly serious health concern in Belarus. For further information, please consult the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) information on TB . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
19,"High-quality medical facilities and services are widely available in Belgium. The large university hospitals can handle most medical problems. Equivalents for most, but not all, U.S. medications are available through local pharmacies with a prescription from a Belgian physician. The responsiveness of emergency services is also generally excellent. For emergency services in Belgium, dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Belgian Federal Public Health Service to ensure the medication is legal in Belgium. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
20,"Emergency services will be either unavailable or significantly delayed. Serious injuries or illnesses normally require evacuation to another country. Medical care for minor ailments is generally available in urban areas. Advanced medical treatment is very limited in Belize City or Belmopan and is extremely limited or unavailable in rural and remote areas. Pharmacy services are generally acceptable in larger cities. Specialized prescription medications may be completely unavailable. If you bring your own prescription medications, you must carry a current doctor’s prescription for each medication. Please contact the Belize Customs Department at (501) 223-7092 or via e-mail at cusnet@btl.net for more information. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Veteran’s Administration health benefits do not apply overseas. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Zika Virus : The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) identifies Belize as a Zika risk area. The Zika virus is spread by the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito. These mosquitoes bite during the day and night. Zika can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus. Infection during pregnancy can cause certain birth defects. Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For additional information, including travel advisories, visit the CDC website . The following diseases are also prevalent in Belize: Malaria Leishmaniasis Diarrheal illness Dengue Fever For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
21,"For emergency services in Benin, dial 116 . Ambulance services are: Not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of Benin . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General : Adequate health facilities are not available throughout the country, and health care may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals : Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with few controls. Counterfeit medication is common, and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases and illnesses are prevalent: Yellow Fever Malaria Dengue Chikungunya HIV/AIDS Lassa Fever Diarrheal illnesses are very common. You should follow food safety precautions. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents, and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Benin. Air Quality The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst December through March. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens; People over 65 years of age; People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors."
22,"For emergency services in Bermuda, dial 911. Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Consulate maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate medical care is available for routine procedures, though extremely expensive. The only hospital in Bermuda performs general surgery and has an emergency room and intensive care unit. Serious or complex medical programs will likely require medical evacuation to the United States. Most Bermudian health care providers including the local hospital do not accept overseas insurance and will expect payment at the time of service. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. prescriptions are not honored in Bermuda.  It will be necessary to visit a Bermuda doctor and have a new prescription written if you need to have it filled in Bermuda. Most common medications are available locally upon presentation of a prescription from a Bermuda doctor.  If you are taking prescription medication, you must inform Bermuda customs officials at the point of entry. Medicines must be in labeled containers, and travelers should carry a copy of the written prescription and a letter from the physician or pharmacist confirming the reason the medicine is prescribed. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Bermuda. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
23,"Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan covers you when you are outside of the United States. We cannot pay your medical bills. U.S. Medicare does not pay overseas. Doctors and hospitals often expect cash payment for health services. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, since medical transport out of the country can be prohibitively expensive or logistically impossible. Tuberculosis is a serious health concern in Bhutan. For further information, please consult the CDC's information on TB . See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Medical Care: Medical facilities in the populated areas in Bhutan such as Thimphu and Paro are available but may be limited or unavailable in rural areas. U.S. citizens in need of urgent medical care should try to get to the Jigme Dorji Wangchuck National Referral Hospital in the capital city, Thimphu. For emergency services in Thimphu, dial 113 for police or 112 for ambulance. Medical services may not meet Western standards, and some medicines are in short supply. Certain emergency medical services are provided free of charge to all tourists. Trekking in Bhutan: We strongly urge you to ensure that your medical insurance covers evacuations, which can be extremely expensive. Visitors planning to trek in Bhutan should pay special attention to the risk of altitude illness. Altitude sickness is a risk above 8,000 feet and travelers to that altitude should consult an appropriate health care provider 4 to 6 weeks before their trip. Treks in Bhutan can take visitors days or weeks away from the nearest medical facility. Limited helicopter evacuation from remote areas in Bhutan is available at the U.S. citizen’s expense. The U.S. Embassy in New Delhi can also help arrange evacuations through private companies at the U.S. citizen’s expense. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all recommended vaccinations, per CDC’s information. The Government of Bhutan recommends that visitors obtain tetanus, typhoid, and hepatitis A inoculations before traveling to Bhutan. Hepatitis B, Japanese Encephalitis, and rabies vaccines are recommended for prolonged stays for people at risk. The influenza vaccine is also recommended. You can find detailed information on vaccinations and other health precautions on the CDC website . For information about outbreaks of infectious diseases abroad, consult the World Health Organization (WHO) website . The WHO website also contains additional health information for travelers, including detailed country-specific health information . The Royal Insurance Corporation of Bhutan has initiated a travel and medical plan solely for visitors to Bhutan. When booking your trip, you should get detailed information about the insurance plan from your travel agents in Bhutan. You may also visit their website at www.ricb.com.bt ."
24,"COVID-19 Testing: Numerous private and public clinics throughout Bolivia offer COVID-19 testing. For a comprehensive list of COVID-19 testing centers, please visit our medical assistance page . The designated government agency regulating COVID-19 testing in Bolivia is the Servicio Departamental de Salud (SEDES). There are 9 branches of SEDES in the 9 Departments of Bolivia. The first step is to contact SEDES for evaluation at 800-10-2930. Antigen and RT-PCR tests are both widely available. The two available tests are the Quick Test and the PCR test. The tests are available at most private labs and in some hospitals. The price for an Antigen test is around 150bs. The cost for a RT-PCR test is approximately 450bs. COVID-19 tests results can be issued by email, text messages or physical copies. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Bolivia. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Medical care in large cities is adequate, but of varying quality. Medical facilities are generally not equipped to handle serious medical conditions, and risk of infection is high. Emergency medical care outside of large cities, in rural areas, and inside national parks is inadequate. For emergency services in Bolivia, dial 110. Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Bolivia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Bolivia, such as La Paz, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel. The following diseases are prevalent in Bolivia: Malaria Dengue Rabies Yellow Fever Chikungunya Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Bolivia."
25,"Access to quality medical care is limited on the BES Islands, and facilities do not offer the health and service standards typically expected in the United States . For emergency services in the BES Islands, dial 911 . Ambulance services are widely available. A list of medical facilities in the BES Islands is available on our Consulate website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medicines: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of the Netherlands to ensure the medication is legal in the BES islands. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Drug stores or “boticas” provide prescription and over-the-counter medicine. Visitors need a local prescription, and may not be able to find medications normally available in the U.S. Emergency services are usually quick to respond. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the BES Islands. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
26,"Medical Facilities and Medications : The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Adequate medical facilities may not be available outside of Sarajevo and may not be up to U.S. standards. Medications may not be obtainable in, or shippable to Bosnia and Herzegovina. You may consider bringing your own supply of prescription drugs and preventive medicines, but you should confirm with a medical professional before you travel that medications arelegal for use or importation to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Some medications which are legal for use in the United States may not be legal in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Marijuana-derived compounds, such as cannabidiol (CBD), are not legal in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Travelers are limited to a seven-day supply of any medications that are considered controlled substances in the United States. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your relevant medical documentation, such as a recent doctor’s prescription and transcript of medical history. All major surgery is performed in public hospitals. English-speaking health providers (including mental health services) many not be available. Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For Emergency Services in Bosnia and Herzegovina, dial: Police – 122, Ambulance – 124, Fire – 123 We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Bosnia and Herzegovina Agency for Medicines to ensure the medication is legal in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Vaccinations :  Although no vaccinations are required to enter BiH, be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Additional health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in most cities in BiH. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates by season. It is at its worst in the winter. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure are: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality in BiH Adventure Travel Visit the CDC website for more information about Adventure Travel . Tuberculosis is an increasingly serious health concern in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For further information, please consult the CDC's information on TB ."
27,"For emergency services in Botswana, dial 999 for the Police, 998 for Fire, and 992 for Ambulance (MRI). Ambulance services are: widely available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Adequately equipped private medical facilities, emergency rooms, and trained physicians are available in Gaborone for simple medical problems but services are rudimentary elsewhere. Ability to pay for care must be established before you will receive medical care. More advanced care is available in South Africa. Many South African manufactured prescription drugs are available in Gaborone, although there have been recent shortages of routine prescription drugs. Avoid drinking tap water and ice made from tap water. Many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe to drink. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Botswana Medicines Regulatory Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Botswana. Check with the government of Botswana to ensure the medication you are carrying is legal in Botswana. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: COVID-19 HIV Malaria (only in the north of the country) Tuberculosis Leptospirosis Schistosomiasis African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya (very rare) Dengue (rare) Hantavirus (very rare) Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever (rare) Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Traveler’s Health (CDC) Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Gaborone and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Botswana. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Although Botswana has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities thatare on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Botswana, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Botswana. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: Although surrogacy agencies/clinics claim surrogacy is legal in Botswana, there is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in Botswana. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign or same-sex intending parents and gestational mothers are not enforced by Botswana courts. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language: The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents, sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets, and wearing protective clothing in certain areas . Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for travelers going to certain areas of Botswana take prescription medicine to prevent malaria, even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Botswana has high HIV prevalence. Travelers are at low risk unless they engage in risky practices, such as unprotected sex or sharing needles. Prevention information is available at U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Traveler’s Health/HIV . There have recently been shortages of routine medications reported throughout Botswana. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Botswana. Air Quality: The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst in the winter months of May-September. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
28,"COVID-19 Testing: Brazil is a very large, diverse country with varying medical resources, both private and public, throughout the country. Many private labs perform COVID-19 testing at various prices, typically between $20 and $100.  PCR, serology-based antibody tests, and antigen tests are available.  Turn-around time varies widely depending upon location. Please verify turn-around time with your chosen lab before taking the test.  Express results within 2-4 hours are available in many locations at an increased fee, including in the Guarulhos International Airport in São Paulo and Galeão International Airport in Rio de Janeiro. Testing is available in the private sector without a doctor’s prescription, but a prescription may be required for insurance payment. In the public healthcare system, each Brazilian state has its own COVID-19 testing plan. We recommend that you contact local/state authorities for more information. Typically, a COVID-19 test is ordered by an emergency room physician and then sent to a public lab. Turnaround time is much slower and can take up to seven days, but tests are generally free.  Information on testing sites and procedures is available through the official app of the Ministry of Health. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Brazil once they register with the public Unified Health System (SUS) . According to the Ministry of Health, available vaccines include AstraZeneca/Oxford (Fiocruz), CoronaVac (Butantan), Janssen (Johnson & Johnson), and Pfizer (BioNTech). For more information on local availability of COVID-19 vaccines, please see the Brazilian Ministry of Health’s website and also contact local health authorities . For emergency services in Brazil, dial 192. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except in state capitals and other large cities. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Brazil to ensure the medication is legal in Brazil. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Though the yellow fever vaccine is not required to enter Brazil, travelers wishing to be vaccinated should consider receiving it prior to travel, as local supplies are limited. Please note that the yellow fever vaccine should be administered ten days prior to travel for it to be effective. Also note that, while yellow fever vaccine is not required to enter Brazil, some neighboring countries (French Guiana, Suriname, Guyana, Bolivia, and Paraguay) do require travelers with recent entries in Brazil to show proof of yellow fever vaccination. All travelers to the country are advised to carry documentation, such as a vaccination card, that they have been appropriately vaccinated for yellow fever. The following diseases are prevalent in Brazil: Chagas Chikungunya Dengue Zika Leishmaniasis Rabies Travelers' diarrhea Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis In recent years, outbreaks of these diseases have also been detected in certain areas of Brazil: Yellow fever Measles Polio Elective Surgery : Although Brazil has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Brazil, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Some “boutique” plastic surgery operations offer luxurious facilities but are not hospitals and are unable to handle emergencies. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Brazil. Non-traditional Medicine: Several U.S. citizens have died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Brazil. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities if seeking such services. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
29,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Doctors and hospitals will expect immediate cash payment for health services. Medical facilities in the British Virgin Islands do not meet U.S. standards. There is no hyperbaric chamber in the BVI. A volunteer organization, Virgin Islands Search and Rescue (VISAR), responds 24-hours to medical emergencies at sea or on the outer islands. VISAR transports casualties to the nearest point for transfer to ambulance. Reach VISAR at SOS (767) or call on Marine Channel 16. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of the British Virgin Islands to ensure the medication is legal in the British Virgin Islands. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The British Virgin Islands have reported past or current transmission of the following diseases: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
30,"For emergency services in Brunei: Ambulance: Dial 991 Police: Dial 993 Fire & Rescue: Dial 995 Search & Rescue: Dial 998 Ambulance services are widely available. COVID-19 Testing: You can go to the Sports Complex, Raja Isteri Pengiran Anak Saleha (RIPAS) Hospital, or other health centers where testing is provided. If you need a COVID-19 RT-PCR or ART test, review the Brunei Ministry of Health approved RT-PCR and ART Certification Center . For more information, contact Brunei’s Health Advice Line 148 (within working hours), or email bruhealth.support@moh.gov.bn . COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine will be provided free of charge to citizens and residents residing in Brunei Darussalam. Visit the website of the Brunei Ministry of Health for information on the Brunei Darussalam Vaccination Strategy. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. There is adequate care for basic medical conditions in Brunei; however, for certain elective surgery or complicated care the best medical care in the region is obtained in Singapore or Bangkok. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Brunei has a number of public hospitals and clinics. Further information about health care facilities in Brunei can be found on the U.S. Embassy website . Medication and prescriptions are readily available but may not be the same brands as those found in the United States. Medical Insurance : Most private care providers in Brunei accept major credit cards or cash payments, and some may accept local bank transfers.  Public care providers only accept cash payments. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication/Prescriptions: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of Brunei in Washington, DC, to ensure the medication is legal in Brunei. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Marijuana for medical use, even with a prescription, is not legal in Brunei. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
31,"For emergency services in Bulgaria, dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Adequate health facilities are available at some hospitals in major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Not every hospital/clinic in equipped for pediatric care. If you need emergency services for an infant/child, please call ahead to ensure those services are available. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills .  Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Credit card payment is not always available. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Bulgaria’s Customs Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Bulgaria. Vaccinations :  Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the winter. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Health Facilities: The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals in Bulgaria. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Bulgaria. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Bulgaria. Although Bulgaria has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Bulgaria, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with few controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for use in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : If you are considering traveling to Bulgaria to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal in Bulgaria. For additional information, visit the Government of Bulgaria’s website for information on foreigner surrogacy."
32,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Burkina Faso to ensure the medication is legal in Burkina Faso. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Follow CDC recommendations to prevent malaria when traveling in Burkina Faso. There is a risk of Zika infection in Burkina Faso. Follow CDC recommendations for travelers to Zika areas , especially if you are pregnant. HIV infection is common throughout the country. Follow CDC recommendations for reducing your risk of contracting HIV. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Dengue Meningococcal meningitis Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Yellow Fever is a risk in Burkina Faso, CDC reccomends this vaccine for travelers who are 9 months of age or older. You can get hepatitis A and typhoid through contaminated food or water in Burkina Faso, make sure to stay up-to-date on vaccinations. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
33,"For emergency services in Burma, dial 119. COVID-19 Testing: Testing is available at the following locations: Yangon Airport Molecular Lab: located on Pyay Road near the Htan Pin Gone bus stop and DHL Myanmar warehouse at the airport. Telephone numbers: 094 4409 9941 / 094 4409 9942 N Health: located in Rangoon at the Tourist Burma Building on the corner of Maha Bandula St. and Sule Paya St. (near Sule Pagoda). Telephone numbers: 01 230 3202 / 09 519 9122 Pun Hlaing Hospital: located in Rangoon on Pun Hlaing Estate Avenue, Hlaing Tharyar Township, as well as at Pun Hlaing Clinic Downtown Rangoon, No. 14/A, Taw Win Street (Corner of Ambassador St and Taw Win St), Dagon Township.  Telephone number: 099400 60222 Samitivej International Clinic: located in Rangoon at 9E/2 Kabar Aye Pagoda Road, Mayangone Township. Telephone numbers: 01 656 732 / 01 660 545 / 09 42427 4301 International SOS Clinic: located in Rangon at Inya Lake Hotel, 37 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road.  Email: reception.ygn@internationalsos.com COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Burma. Some private clinics in Burma offer COVID-19 vaccination programs, including booster shots.  American citizens in Burma seeking vaccination should contact private clinics directly for more information.  The Embassy shares this information as a courtesy but does not endorse or recommend any specific vaccination program in Burma. International SOS Clinic: located in Rangon at Inya Lake Hotel, 37 Kaba Aye Pagoda Road.  Email: reception.ygn@internationalsos.com Grand Hantha International Hospital: located in Rangoon at No.3, Corner of Lower Kyee Myin Daing Kanner Road and Narnattaw.  Email: info@grandhantha.com . Visit the FDA’s website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Given the above information, injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Most medical facilities in Burma are inadequate for routine medical care. If you are seeking medical care in Burma, you will be asked to pay cash for all health care services and medicines before receiving care; credit cards are not accepted in most health care facilities and insurance will not be billed. Adequate Emergency Medical Services including ambulance care is not reliably available. Patients who are admitted to public hospitals typically need a family member or friend to assist them with care in the hospital, and food and medical supplies must be purchased for use in the hospital. Few medical personnel in Burma are trained to U.S. standards. U.S. citizens needing urgent medical care have been denied treatment at public hospitals due to a lack of funds. In an emergency, you would likely need to be medically evacuated to a hospital outside Burma . Medical evacuation from Burma is expensive and is most often transacted in cash, therefore medical evacuation insurance is advised. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation (see above). Medication: Many pharmaceuticals on sale in Burma are counterfeit or adulterated, or may not be available. Travelers should consider Burmese pharmaceuticals generally unsafe to use and should bring their own medications for the duration of their stay in Burma. If traveling with prescription medication, check with these authorities to ensure that the medication is legal in Burma.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
34,"Health facilities throughout the country are well below the U.S. standard of care. Training of staff and general hygiene and sanitation remain a problem. Adequate health facilities for basic medical care are available in Bujumbura and at some other locations. If you do need medical care, you will be asked to pay cash in advance and may be denied treatment if unable to do so. Credit cards are generally not accepted; insurance companies are not billed. There is no single number for emergency medical services in Burundi. Contact a doctor or hospital directly. Ambulance services are: Not present throughout the country or are unreliable. Not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The U.S. Government does not pay private medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance for medical evacuations. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Burundi Ministry of Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in Burundi. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality available at some U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a moderate problem in several major cities in Burundi. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling, if appropriate. Respiratory issues have been reported more frequently when the air quality is worse, particularly in the drier months. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors. Health facilities in general Adequate health facilities for basic care are available in Bujumbura, but health care throughout the country is below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics often lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require cash payment up front, prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not available. Medical staff may speak little or no English. In general, minimal staffing is available overnight in non-emergency hospital wards. Consider having family spend the night with patients, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over-the-counter and those requiring prescriptions in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Please contact the Burundi Ministry of Public Health for regulations on bringing medication into Burundi. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Burundi to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . There are no known cases of surrogacy in Burundi. According to current guidance from civil authorities, if a child were born through surrogacy in Burundi, the surrogate mother would be listed as the birth mother on the birth certificate. She could then decide whether to give the child up for adoption. Water Quality Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe. Be aware that ice for drinks may be from tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Cholera COVID-19 Dengue Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Malaria Measles Rabies Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis (TB) Typhoid Other diseases that may be present, but are not prevalent: African Tick Bite Fever Chickenpox (Varicella) Chikungunya Diphtheria-Tetanus-Pertussis Flu (influenza) Hantavirus Leptospirosis Polio Shingles Yellow Fever Zika Use mosquito repellents recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and sleep under insecticide-treated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers, even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: HIV transmission within Burundi is lower in comparison to other countries in sub–Saharan Africa; however, the risk of transmission remains higher than in the United States. Visitors should exercise caution and avoid unprotected sexual activity. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Burundi. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
35,"For emergency services in Cabo Verde, dial 132 . Medical facilities in Cabo Verde are limited, and some medications are in short supply or otherwise unavailable. The country’s largest hospitals are in Praia and Mindelo. There are smaller public health centers and private medical clinics, of variable quality in both personnel and equipment, throughout the country. Transportation between islands is difficult, and inter-island medevac options are limited. The islands of Brava and Santo Antão do not have operational airports, which makes air evacuation in the event of a medical emergency difficult. Those traveling to Cabo Verde for scuba diving should be aware that there is no hyperbaric/decompression facility on the islands. Ambulance services are: not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Hepatitis A Hepatitis B HIV Malaria Rabies Typhoid Tuberculosis Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Cabo Verde."
36,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Cambodia. Medical facilities and services in Cambodia do not meet international standards. Both Phnom Penh and Siem Reap have a limited number of internationally run clinics and hospitals that can provide basic medical care and stabilization. Medical care outside of these two cities is almost non-existent. Local pharmacies provide a limited supply of prescription and over-the-counter medications. Because the quality of locally obtained medications can vary greatly, make sure to bring a supply of your medications adequate for the duration of your stay in Cambodia. You should be wary of purchasing local medication. Counterfeit medication is readily available, often indiscernible from authentic medication, and potentially lethal. Be aware that neither U.S. Medicare nor Medicaid apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on what type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation is strongly recommended. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of Cambodia to ensure the medication is legal in Cambodia. Always, carry your prescription medication in the original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Be careful if purchasing off-brand medication from pharmacies in Cambodia. Drugs sold in pharmacies can be fake and possibly dangerous. Malaria, Dengue and Tuberculosis are serious health concerns in Cambodia. For further information, please consult the CDC . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
37,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on entry/exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Cameroon. For emergency services in Cameroon, dial the number of the hospital in the area where you are located. There is currently no national number for general health-related emergencies in the country. Ambulance services are: Not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Yaoundé and Douala. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of Cameroon to ensure the medication is legal in Cameroon. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Health care in many areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics may lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Medical staff may communicate primarily in French and speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse if the hospital is amenable or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Cameroon. Although Cameroon has elective/cosmetic surgery facilities, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Cameroon, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available, and professionals are accredited and qualified. Persons traveling to Cameroon for medical purposes require the proper “medical” visa. Check the Government of Cameroon’s website for more information. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Cameroon may not allow the importation of some medication. Travelers should avoid carrying any prohibited medication. Please review Cameroon rules on medication or contact the Ministry of Health's Directorate of Pharmacies and Medications . Non-Traditional Medicine U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners overseas. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Cameroon to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . If you decide to pursue parenthood in Cameroon via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Schistosomiasis Cholera Dengue Yellow fever Meningococcal meningitis Polio Tuberculosis HIV Diarrheal Illness Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Yellow Fever: Proof of Yellow Fever vaccination is required for entry and exit. The vaccine date on the yellow vaccination record card must be at least 10 days old before arrival in the country. Passengers without proof of Yellow Fever vaccination will be administered the vaccine upon arrival at the airport, at their own expense. There may be shortages of specific medicine and medical supplies in Cameroon. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Cameroon. Air Quality air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
38,"For emergency services in Canada, dial 911 . Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with Health Canada to ensure the medication is legal in Canada. Healthcare in Canada : The level of public health and sanitation in Canada is high. Adequate health facilities are available throughout Canada.  Canada’s medical care is of a high standard but is government controlled. Access to ongoing medical care is difficult for temporary visitors who are not members of a Canadian province’s government-run health care plan. Many physicians will not take new patients. Specialist care is only by referral and may take months to obtain. Although trauma-care is on par with that in the United States, emergency room waits for non-life threatening problems can be very long. Some health care professionals in the Quebec may only speak French. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all CDC-recommended vaccinations . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Canada to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page ."
39,"Medical Care: The quality of medical care in the Cayman Islands is generally comparable to that available in the United States, but some procedures and cases requiring critical care may require medical evacuation to the United States. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate payment for health services. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Snorkeling/SCUBA Diving: Each year, U.S. citizens drown or suffer cardiac arrest while snorkeling or SCUBA diving in the Cayman Islands. Remember: Be honest with your instructor or the dive shop if you have a pre-existing medical condition that could be exacerbated when snorkeling or diving; and Check that a hyperbaric chamber is available for treatment of decompression illness. Emergency Services: Emergency response services are available in the Cayman Islands. The following diseases are prevalent: Zika Virus , Chikungunya , Dengue Fever . Zika virus is a mosquito-borne illness that can be spread from a pregnant woman to her unborn baby, as well as through sexual contact. The CDC has concluded that the Zika virus is a cause of microcephaly and other severe fetal brain defects in some fetuses and babies born to infected mothers. Zika outbreaks have been reported on Curacao. For additional information about Zika, including travel advisories, visit the CDC website . Chikunguya and Dengue are mosquito-borne illnesses that are becoming more frequent in tropical and equatorial climates around the world. Preventing mosquito bites is the most important way to prevent these illnesses. Travelers should carry and use CDC recommended insect repellents . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
40,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in the Central African Republic. For emergency services in the Central African Republic, dial 117 (local equivalent of “911”) or 2161-2200 (the Gendarmerie.) Ambulance services are: Not present throughout the country. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. U.S. Embassy Bangui does not pay medical bills for U.S. citizens. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance and often medical facilities in CAR require payment before treatment. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most healthcare providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Medical facilities are extremely limited in CAR, and the quality of care is unreliable. Sanitation levels are low. Many medicines are not available. You should carry a sufficient supply of properly labeled prescription drugs and other medications with you for your entire visit. The following diseases are prevalent: Meningococcal meningitis Rabies Malaria Diarrheal diseases HIV Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Central African Republic. Vaccinations: Be current on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
41,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Chad . Consult the CDC website for Chad prior to travel. Medical facilities are limited throughout the country. In the capital, International SOS offers limited U.S. standard medical and emergency care including ambulances, referrals, and evacuation. Membership is required and should be purchased prior to arrival in country. There are five hospitals in N’Djamena. Hopital de la Renaissance is the only one recommended for use by U.S. citizens; however, adequate care is contingent upon personnel availability, some medical equipment is nonoperational and medical supplies and medical personnel can vary. Carry your prescription medication in the original packaging that is labeled with your name, medication name and prescribing provider. Carry all over the counter medication in original packaging. In the summer, temperatures can reach 130 degrees Fahrenheit, and dehydration is a concern. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. All care providers expect payment in U.S. dollars before treatment. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance covers you overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance with medical evacuation coverage. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. During the dry season (November-April), dust storms may diminish air quality. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Chad. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season.  People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Health facilities in general: Health facilities in N’Djamena and in rural Chad are below U.S. Standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The following diseases are prevalent: African trypanosomiasis Chikungunya COVID-19 Diarrheal diseases Hepatitis A Malaria Measles Polio Typhoid Upper respiratory infections Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. There are shortages of food, water, medicine, medical supplies, etc. throughout Chad. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Chad. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention"
42,"Medical care in Chile is generally good, though it may not meet U.S. standards in remote areas. Major hospitals accept credit cards. Santiago has one private hospital accredited by The American Hospital Association: Clinica Alemana . We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Chile to ensure the medication is legal in Chile. Always carry a sufficient supply of your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Please note the following health concerns: Dengue Fever (endemic to Easter Island but not found on continental Chile). Air pollution is a concern in many parts of Chile including Santiago, Rancagua, Talca, Chillan, Los Angeles, Temuco, Osorno, and Coyhaique, and is most severe in winter (May-August). The ozone layer is especially thin over parts of Chile. Protect yourself from ultraviolet radiation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
43,"COVID-19 Entry Requirements: There are COVID-related entry requirements in place for U.S. citizens. As of May 3, 2023, a negative COVID-19 PCR test or rapid antigen test (home tests are acceptable) within 48 hours of boarding is required for entry. Test results must be self-declared through a Health Declaration Form or through the China Customs smartphone app. Airlines will not check test results anymore. For more information, please see this notice . No proof of vaccination against COVID-19 is required for entry. There is no quarantine period for travelers upon arrival. COVID-19 Testing: U.S. citizens can obtain a COVID-19 test at most hospitals and clinics in the PRC. They can choose between PCR and antigen tests, which are both available. The cost of the test is about $17 U.S. dollars, but it may vary depending on the location. The test fee is not covered by the host government and must be paid by the U.S. citizen. Test results are usually returned within 12 to 24 hours by email, text, or an update to the local COVID-19 monitoring app. For more information, please see this notice . COVID-19 Vaccines: Certain COVID-19 vaccines are available for U.S. citizens to receive in the PRC. The PRC government has conditionally authorized several vaccines that are currently available to foreigners residing in the PRC. The two most commonly available, Sinopharm and Sinovac, have not yet received approval by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States. Sinopharm and Sinovac have received approval for emergency use by the World Health Organization (WHO). Please contact your local health authorities for more information. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Quality of Care: The standards of medical care in the PRC are not equivalent to those in the United States. Even in private hospitals or public hospitals with well-equipped wards, English-speaking patients frequently encounter difficulty due to cultural, language, and regulatory differences. Rural areas have rudimentary facilities and inadequate staffing. Additionally, Rh-negative blood may be difficult to obtain; the blood type of the general Asian populace is Rh positive. Payment and Insurance: Ambulances in the PRC are often slow to arrive, and most do not have sophisticated medical equipment or trained responders. Cash payment for services is often required prior to treatment, including emergency cases. Travelers will be asked to post a deposit prior to admission to cover the expected cost of treatment. Hospitals in major cities may accept credit cards. The U.S. Embassy and Consulates General in the PRC maintain lists of local English-speaking doctors and hospitals . Use of Medicare/Medicaid in the PRC: Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Hospitals and doctors in the PRC often do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in the United States of America to ensure the medication is legal in the PRC. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with the prescription. Many commonly used U.S. drugs and medications are not available in the PRC, and counterfeit, low-quality knockoffs are prevalent. If you try to have medications sent to you from outside the PRC, you may have problems getting them released by PRC Customs authorities and/or you may have to pay high customs duties. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in many locations. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The PRC’s Ministry of Ecology and Environment also provides its own air quality data for cities throughout the PRC. Most roads and towns in Tibet, Qinghai, parts of Xinjiang, and western Sichuan are situated at altitudes over 10,000 feet. Take appropriate precautions to prepare for and be alert to altitude sickness. Disease: The following diseases are prevalent: Influenza Typhoid Measles Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Tuberculosis Sexually transmitted infections (e.g., syphilis) Vaccinations: Be up to date on all routine vaccinations recommended by the CDC. The CDC traveler’s health site for the PRC provides vaccine recommendations specific to travel within the PRC. For further health information : World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
44,"For emergency services in Colombia, dial 123 from any mobile phone or land line. Ambulance services are available in larger cities, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills .  Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Travelers can check with the Embassy of Colombia in the United States to ensure the medication is legal in Colombia. Vaccinations :  Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Visit the CDC Traveler View website for vaccination information, and the Colombia Ministry of Health website for Yellow Fever vaccination requirements. Childhood vaccinations are required by Colombian law for children ages six and under.  Visit the Ministry for Health and Public Safety website for a list of required childhood vaccinations. Further Health Information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General : Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors often require payment upfront prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is frequently, but not always, available. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery : U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Colombia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications or repatriation in the case of untimely death. Your legal options in cases of malpractice are very limited in Colombia. Although Colombia has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Colombia, carefully research the doctor and recovery facility you plan to use. Make sure that emergency medical facilities are available, and that professionals are accredited and qualified. Share all health information (e.g. medical conditions, medications, allergies) with your doctor before surgery. Pharmaceuticals : Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Colombia does not allow the sale of certain psychiatric medications.  Travelers should carry a sufficient supply for their trips. Please review the Colombian government’s open data website for drug unavailability. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : If you are considering traveling to Colombia to have a child through the use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is currently neither prohibited nor permitted under Colombian law. Although surrogacy agencies/clinics claim surrogacy is legal in Colombia, there is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign or same sex intending parents and gestational mothers may not be enforced by Colombian courts. Water Quality : In rural areas, tap water may not be potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude : Many cities in Colombia, such as Bogota, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel : Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health : The following diseases are prevalent: COVID-19 Dengue Chikungunya Malaria Yellow Fever Zika In Chocó, Nariño, and Córdoba, use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents, and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers in the Amazon region, even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Travelers should bring medication sufficient for their entire stay. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Colombia. Air Quality : Air pollution is a problem in several major cities in Colombia. Consider the impact smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
45,"Consult the CDC website for the Comoros prior to travel. Medical care is limited on all three islands, including Grande Comore. There are private facilties requiring advance membership. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. We do not pay medical bills. You are responsible for all medical costs. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. All care providers expect payment in KMF/USD in full before treatment is performed. Medical Insurance: If your health insurance plan does not provide coverage overseas, we strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance and medical evacuation plans . The following diseases are prevelant: Malaria Dengue Fever Chikungunya Diarrheal illness Rabies Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
46,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/ exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Costa Rica. For emergency services in Costa Rica, dial 911 . Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below United States standards. Medical care in San Jose is generally adequate, but services can be limited in areas outside of San Jose. In remote areas, basic medical equipment may not be available. Ambulances may lack emergency equipment. Most prescription and over-the-counter medications are available; however, some United States citizens travel regularly to the United States to fill prescriptions that are unavailable locally. Bring a supply of your medications and carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that United States Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept United States health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Costa Rican immigration authorities reserve the right to prevent departure of those international travelers with unpaid or disputed medical bills. The United States Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals on our Embassy website . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Costa Rican Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Costa Rica. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Proof of yellow fever vaccination must be presented upon arrival for all passengers coming from certain countries in South America or Africa . Medical Tourism: Confirm that: Facilities and professionals will be able to provide an acceptable level of care Your insurance will cover any associated or emergency costs You understand the terms of payment and costs for treatment For clinics offering alternative medical treatments, thoroughly research these clinics and their providers. The Embassy has received reports of hospitalizations as a result of clients at so-called wellness centers undergoing medically unverified “alternative treatments.” We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. An air ambulance flight can cost $25,000 to $50,000 USD and will often take place only after payment has been received in full. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout Costa Rica but health care in rural areas may be below United States standards. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: United States citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Costa Rica. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Costa Rica. Although Costa Rica has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Costa Rica, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with few controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, be the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. United States Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Costa Rica does not allow the importation of most medications through the mail, even with a prescription. Travelers entering Costa Rica may carry personal medications with them and in suitcases, but also should carry a copy of the prescriptions. Medications should be in original packaging, and quantities should correspond to the prescription. Please review Costa Rica’s rules on importing medication at the Ministry of Health website . Alcohol: If you choose to drink alcohol, it is important to do so in moderation and to stop and seek medical attention if you begin to feel ill. There have been reports of individuals falling ill or dying after consuming alcohol tainted with methanol. Costa Rica’s Ministry of Health has advised any persons presenting health issues after consuming alcohol, such as severe vomiting, agitation, disorientation, blindness, or any other adverse reactions, to immediately call 911. Ministry of Health authorities are asking people to report any instances of the sale of unregulated alcohol or alcohol adulterated with methanol to the Judicial Investigation Organization (OIJ) confidential line at 800-8000-645, or by email to denuncias.drpis@misalud.go.cr, or by calling the National Center for Intoxicants at 2223-1028 or 800-INTOXICA (4686-9422). Additionally, if you feel you have been the victim of unregulated alcohol or another serious health violation, you should notify the American Citizen Services unit at the U.S. Embassy in San Jose at +506-2519-2000. You may also contact the U.S. Department of State – Bureau of Consular Affairs in Washington, D.C. at 1-888-407-4747 (toll-free in the United States and Canada) or 1-202-501-4444 (from all other countries) from 8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Eastern Standard Time, Monday through Friday (except U.S. federal holidays). Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Costa Rica to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language: The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya HIV/AIDS: Follow all standard procedures for protection against the spread of HIV/AIDS. Visit the UUnited States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Costa Rica Air Quality: The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
47,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Côte d'Ivoire. Abidjan has privately-run medical and dental facilities that are adequate, but do not fully meet U.S. standards. Good physician specialists can be found, although few speak English. While pharmacies are well-stocked with medications produced in Europe, newer drugs may not be available. If you plan a lengthy trip to Côte d’Ivoire, you should bring enough medication to last the entire stay in your carry-on luggage. Medical care outside of Abidjan is extremely limited. The rainy season is typically from June to September, and often includes heavy rains and flash flooding, particularly in low-lying areas. Heavy rains have caused landslides, riverbank erosion, bridge washouts, and property damage. Roads may be closed suddenly and stay closed for indefinite periods of time, especially in more remote areas. U.S. citizens should monitor local weather and news reports, avoid driving through flooded areas, and keep a supply of water and emergency provisions in their residence. For emergency services in Côte d’Ivoire, dial the numbers below. For emergency medical transport services in Côte d’Ivoire, ambulances are available free of charge in the public system, while private ambulance services are available for a fee. Ambulances may be contacted at the numbers below: Public system: SAMU “Service d’aide Medicale Urgente”: +225 27-22-44-94-09, +225-27-22-44-34-45, or +225-27-22-44-53-53 (on Facebook ) MEDICIS (private): +225-27-21-75-29-60 or +225-27-21-75-29-63 (on Facebook ) SOS Abidjan (private): 1304 (on Facebook ) Ambulance services in the public system are: not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to hire a private ambulance or take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for a public ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health & Public Hygiene to ensure the medication is legal in Côte d’Ivoire. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General: Adequate health facilities are available in Abidjan and other major cities, but health care in rural areas is below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available, and most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over-the-counter and requiring prescriptions in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common, and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: Although tap water is potable in Côte d’Ivoire, we recommend drinking only bottled water. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Swimming in coastal waters is dangerous and strongly discouraged, even for excellent swimmers. The ocean currents along the coast are powerful and treacherous, and numerous people drown each year. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Diarrhea illness HIV/AIDS Malaria Meningococcal Disease Tuberculosis Yellow Fever Dengue Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: According to data from the U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDSRelief (PEPFAR) in 2017/2018, Cote d’Ivoire has an HIV prevalence rate of 2.9 percent for 15 to 64-year-olds, with higher rates among female sex workers and men who have sex with men (11.4 percent and 12.33 percent, respectively). Annually, there are approximately 13,000 new HIV infections (2,700 among children) and 13,000 AIDS-related deaths in Côte d’Ivoire. There are shortages of medicine and medical supplies in public health facilities and in many medical facilities in rural areas. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Côte d’Ivoire. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Côte d’Ivoire. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult with your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst during the harmattan season (a very dry season in West Africa when winds blow sand and dust from the Sahara Desert) from December to February. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease, such as asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors."
48,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Croatia. Adequate medical care is readily available in Croatia, but facilities may not be comparable to U.S. standards. Travelers to Croatia may obtain a list of English-speaking physicians on the U.S. Embassy’s website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. You may need a prescription to get some medications that you can purchase over the counter in the United States. For emergency services in Croatia, dial 194 or 112. Ambulance services are: not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics may lack advanced resources and specialized medical supplies. Credit card payment is not always available. Some hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals may require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Public hospitals are minimally staffed overnight in non-emergency wards. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. There are shortages of medical staff (nurses, doctors) throughout the country that may delay exams, imaging, surgeries, etc. at public healthcare centers. Occasionally shortages of special medications may occur. We do not pay medical bills. U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers in Croatia accept cash or credit card payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas medical coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Pharmaceuticals Prescription medication: If traveling with prescription medication, please check with the government of Croatia and its Customs Administration to make sure the medication is legal in Croatia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Visit the U.S. Embassy’s website for information on bringing medical drugs for personal use when traveling to Croatia . Note that Croatian law prohibits the importation of drugs via postal mail. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If you will be in Croatia for more than three months, especially if you anticipate hiking, camping, or other outdoor activities in forested areas, you may wish to get a tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) vaccine. According to the CDC, the TBE vaccine is now available in the United States, but is carried only in larger travel clinics. If you are in Croatia, it is available from local doctors. Use insect repellent and inspect your body for ticks after spending time outdoors. Diseases Influenza is prevalent during the winter season. HIV/AIDS: There is a low prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Croatia. HIV/AIDS treatment and medication are available in Croatia. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Croatia. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Croatia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Croatia. Although Croatia has several elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Croatia, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and that professionals are accredited and qualified. Adventure Travel Visit Adventure Travel and U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information. Air Quality : Cities in Croatia have air pollution levels slightly higher than those in major U.S. cities, with higher levels measured in winter. Visit the European Environment Agency’s website for information on air quality in Croatia. Water Quality Croatia has an abundance of fresh water and the public drinking water systems cover around 87% of the population. Water quality is tested daily throughout the country. Tests are performed according to internationally accepted standards. Water in Croatia is of high quality with potable tap water being available in most places. Some rural areas rely on private wells that may not be subject to quality testing standards. Some older buildings in major cities may have led-laced piping leading to increased levels of lead in the drinking water. You can learn more by visiting the Croatian Institute of Public Health website . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
49,"For emergency services in Cuba, dial: 104 for an ambulance or contact the nearest hospital directly 105 for fire 106 for police Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Hospitals and doctors in Cuba do not accept U.S. health insurance.  Most hospitals require payment up front before services are rendered. Medical Insurance: Ensure your airline ticket includes health insurance.  Cuba requires all U.S. airlines departing the United States to pay for health insurance for each passenger. The health insurance from airlines is valid for 30 days upon your arrival in Cuba.  If you are planning to stay in Cuba for more than 30 days, you will need to extend your coverage before you can extend your visa. It is important to keep a record of your arrival into Cuba, such as your airline ticket, so that the Asistur agency can coordinate with the hospital on payment MEDEVAC flights from Cuba are difficult to arrange, with costs starting at $15,000 U.S. dollars.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Ensure you have all medicine you require for your time in Cuba.  Medicine (prescription and over the counter) is not readily available in Cuba.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the General Customs Office of Cuba to ensure the medication is legal in Cuba.  Note: This site is in Spanish only. Diarrheal illness is common among travelers, even in luxury accommodations.  Travelers should wash their hands, drink bottled water, and avoid street and undercooked food. The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Fever Hepatitis-A Traveler’s diarrhea Chikungunya Typhoid Rabies Zika Virus Covid-19 Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific medical issues in Cuba . Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Pharmaceuticals: Even the most common over the counter medications are unavailable in Cuba. Other medication, medical equipment or supplies are also unavailable on the island.  If you are able to find medicine, exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Counterfeit medication may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: Tap water is not potable.  Bottled water is often unavailable for purchase and you should be aware that some restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health Issues There are severe shortages of food, potable water, medicine, medical supplies, etc.  throughout Cuba. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Cuba. Air Quality: Air pollution is a problem in several major cities in Cuba. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
50,"Access to quality medical care is limited in Curaçao, and facilities do not offer the health and service standards typically expected in the United States. For emergency services in Curaçao, dial: Police: 911 Ambulance/EMS: 912 Fire Department: 911 Coastal Guard: 913 Ambulance services are widely available. Curaçao’s medical system emphasizes the use of “house doctors” or “huisarts,” outpatient primary care physicians who may not have completed postgraduate training such as a residency program. Some surgical specialties, e.g., neurosurgery and cardiac surgery, are not represented on the island. St. Elisabeth Hospital (SEHOS) is the largest hospital in Curaçao with an extensive emergency room and the only intensive care unit on the island. Curaçao also has two private clinics, The Curacao Medical Center (CMC) A list of medical facilities in Curaçao is available on our Consulate website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Critically ill patients requiring service not offered in Curaçao are normally transferred to Colombia at the patient’s expense. If medical evacuation is authorized by the patient’s insurance carrier or funded privately (approximately $15,000 – $25,000), patients can be transferred to the United States. Medicines: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Curaçao to ensure the medication is legal in Curaçao.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The variety of drugs available locally is smaller than in the U.S. To find out which local pharmacy is open after hours, you can call (+599)(9)737-7404, visit pharmacies on duty , or check with your hotel. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following diseases are prevalent: Zika Virus Dengue Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Curaçao. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
51,"We do not pay medical bills, and U.S. Medicare does not pay overseas claims. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas . Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments . See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend obtaining supplemental insurance for medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication , check with the Republic of Cyprus to ensure the medication is legal in Cyprus. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. You should similarly confirm with authorities in the area administered by Turkish Cypriots to ensure any medication you are carrying will not present problems. The police there can be contacted at 00903922283411 and the “Drug and Pharmacy Office” at 00903922284156 or 00903922284001. Be aware that the dry air on the island may aggravate respiratory ailments and allergies . Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
52,"For emergency services in Czech Republic, dial 112. Prague has adequate Western-style medical clinics with English-speaking doctors and dentists, but its system is organized differently than in the United States. Though central emergency rooms exist in most hospitals, patients are often sent to a specialty clinic to treat specific medical conditions. Family practices like those in the United States are mostly in larger cities. All major hospitals accept credit cards or cash as a method of payment. Private specialists usually expect cash , though some private facilities accept credit cards. In the event of an injury, appropriate medical treatment is widely available throughout the country. Outside of a major metropolitan center, it may take more time for first responders and medical professionals to stabilize a patient and provide life-saving assistance. Ambulance services are on par with those in the United States. Response time is usually less than 15 minutes. Ambulance companies generally expect payment at the time of service. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Generally, patients who have overseas insurance coverage should expect to pay the bill at the time services are rendered and then seek reimbursement from their insurance company. Contact your health insurance company directly to find out if your policy includes overseas coverage. Many care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Czech Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in the Czech Republic. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals on its website . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission, either in cash or by credit card. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to the Czech Republic. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in the Czech Republic. Although the Czech Republic has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in the Czech Republic, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available, and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Additionally, see the Czech Embassy’s restricted medication section on its website before traveling with medication. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to the Czech Republic to have a child through the use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . The Czech Republic neither legalizes, regulates, nor prohibits couples to apply and perform surrogacy treatments. According to current legislation, assisted reproduction therapy permits heterosexual couples to apply but at present restricts single women or homosexual couples to apply for assisted reproduction. If you decide to pursue parenthood in the Czech Republic via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Tick-borne encephalitis and Lyme disease. If you plan to camp or hike in long grass or woodlands from March to October, you run the risk of both tick-borne encephalitis and Lyme disease. While there is a vaccine for encephalitis, no vaccine exists for Lyme disease. Use insect repellent and proper clothing as extra protection. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Czech Republic. U.S. living wills stipulating no exceptional interventions to prolong life are not honored in the Czech Republic due to laws against euthanasia. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in the Czech Republic Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the wintertime. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
53,"Medical facilities, medicine severely limited. For emergency services in DRC, dial 112 for the police and call a local private hospital for medical assistance. A list of medical providers is available on the U.S. Embassy website. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country except by private medical providers in major cities. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. All care providers expect payment in U.S. dollars before treatment. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance covers you overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance with medical evacuation coverage. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of DRC to ensure the medication is legal in DRC. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in DRC. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season from May to October. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Hospitals and medical professionals may require cash payment. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight and food services and supplies are the responsibility of the patient. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Travelers should carry medical prescriptions for medicine they take to the DRC. DRC does not allow the importation of Dipyrone (Metamizole, Noramidopyrine) and Apha Beta-Arteether. Travelers should avoid carrying these medications. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to the DRC to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . There is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in DRC. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign or same-sex intending parents and gestational mothers are not enforced by DRC courts. If you decide to pursue parenthood in DRC via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The following diseases ae prevalent: African trypanosomiasis Chickenpox Chikungunya Cholera COVID-19 Dengue Diarrheal diseases Ebola Hepatitis A Measles Meningococcal meningitis Monkeypox Mumps Pertussis Polio Rabies Rubella Schistosomiasis Tetanus Tuberculosis Typhoid Yellow fever Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: In 2018, HIV was noted as the 10 th leading cause of death in the DRC. The disease is still prevalent and standard precautions should be taken, including safe sex practices. There are shortages of medicine and medical supplies throughout the rural areas of DRC and some areas suffer clean water shortages. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in DRC."
54,"Excellent medical facilities are widely available in Denmark. Hospitals are modern and fully equipped. Medical facilities in Greenland and the Faroe Islands are limited, and evacuation is required for serious illness or injury. For emergency services in the Kingdom of Denmark, dial 112. Emergency medical treatment may be free of charge; however, the patient is charged for follow-up care. In Denmark, you must call in advance to be admitted to an emergency room for immediate treatment for nonlife-threatening emergencies. If you show up at an emergency room unannounced you may be turned away. Dial 1813 to speak to the national medical helpline, staffed by physicians and nurses, who will determine which emergency room or clinic you should go to for care and coordinate an appointment for you. Ambulance services are widely available throughout Denmark but are limited in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication , check with the government of Denmark to ensure the medication is legal in the Kingdom of Denmark. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
55,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Djibouti. Consult the CDC website for Djibouti prior to travel. Medical facilities in the capital of Djibouti are limited, and facilities are nonexistent in many outlying areas. Trauma care is only intended to stabilize a patient prior to medical evacuation. Medicines are expensive and often in short supply. Most care providers expect payment in U.S. dollars or Djiboutian francs before treatment is provided. For emergency services in Djibouti, dial 18. Ambulance services are available from Balbala Hospital in Djibouti City. To obtain ambulance services contact Moussa, cell phone #77824912. Ambulance services are not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Djibouti. Dual U.S.-Djiboutian citizens with disabilities may qualify for education and health services through the Ministry of National Solidarity and the Ministry for the Promotion of Women and Family Planning. The following diseases are prevalent: African Tick Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Hantavirus Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Leishmaniasis Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Rabies Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis (TB) Typhoid Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Given Djibouti’s proximity to the Arabian Peninsula, the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) is also a risk. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
56,"Medical facilities in Dominica do not meet U.S. standards. Dominica has an operational hyperbaric chamber. There is limited ambulance service on most of the island. Sea rescue service is available at the North end of the island. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills for overseas travelers. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Dominica to ensure the medication is legal in Dominica. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Dominica has reported past or current transmission of the following diseases: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
57,"For emergency services in the Dominican Republic, dial 911 or 809-202-2026 . Ambulance services: The training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Ambulances are not present or reliable in most areas of the country. They are more reliable and available in Santo Domingo, Santiago, Punta Cana, and Puerto Plata. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry for Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in the Dominican Republic. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Be aware that some hotels, resorts, etc. have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which have costs associated and may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. If you are considering travel to the Dominican Republic for cosmetic surgery, be mindful of the following: Have a medical evaluation from a U.S. doctor to determine if you are a good candidate for surgery. Before travel, carefully research the doctor (e.g. qualifications, experience performing the surgery, complication rate) and credentials of the recovery facility you plan to use. Share all health information (e.g. medical conditions, medications, allergies) with your doctor before your surgery. Obtain international travel insurance that covers medical evacuation back to the United States and repatriation of remains. For more information, see: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/insurance . See a travel medicine professional in the United States at least 4–6 weeks before your trip to discuss healthy travel and to learn about specific risks related to your surgery and travel. For more information on the risks of medical tourism, see: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/travel/page/medical-tourism . Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in the Dominican Republic. Tap Water: Tap water is unsafe to drink. Bottled water and beverages are considered safe. Please note that many restaurants use tap water for ice. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Malaria Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Dominican Republic ."
58,"COVID-19 Testing: A list of laboratories licensed to perform RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests is available on the website maintained by Ecuador’s Medical Services and Prepaid Medicine Quality Assurance Agency (ACESS).  The Ministry of Public Health fixed the price of RT-PCR tests at $45.  Rapid antigen tests can also be purchased at local pharmacies.  More information is available at this link . Laboratories generally promise results within 24 hours. Many laboratories will email results the same day. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Ecuador. U.S. citizen residents in Ecuador can contact their local public health center to obtain vaccine information and schedule an appointment. The Ministry of Public Health has lists of the public health centers that offer the COVID-19 vaccine on its website . Alternatively, U.S. citizen residents and non-residents interested in the COVID-19 vaccine can contact the Ministry of Public Health directly by dialing 171. Visit the FDA’s website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. For emergency services in Ecuador, dial 911. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country and unreliable in most areas except Quito. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance, particularly outside of Quito. Adequate medical and dental care is available in major cities. In smaller communities and in the Galapagos Islands, services are limited, and the quality is generally well below U.S. standards. Ambulance service is limited. Specialized medical care can cost tens of thousands of dollars or is not available. Pharmacies are widely available. However, some medications might not be offered, and brand names will differ from products in the United States. Not all pharmacies purchase medications from pharmaceutical companies that adhere to quality control standards. Exercise caution if you explore herbal and folk remedies. Quito is 9,400 feet above sea level. Some other tourist destinations in the mountainous region may be higher. Consult your doctor for recommendations concerning medication and lifestyle tips at high altitude. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of Ecuador’s National Customs Service to ensure the medication is legal in Ecuador. The following diseases are present: Chagas disease Chikungunya Dengue Malaria Tuberculosis Yellow fever Zika Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Mission in Ecuador maintains a list of doctors and hospitals on its webpage . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general : Adequate health facilities are available in Quito and Guayaquil but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Ecuador to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is legal for foreigners in Ecuador. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Ecuador, such as Quito, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness, and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
59,"For emergency services in Egypt, dial 123 . Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Insurance: Travelers should make sure their health insurance plan covers them when outside of the United States. The U.S Embassy cannot pay medical bills. U.S. Medicare does not pay overseas. Doctors and hospitals often expect cash payment for health services. The U.S. Embassy strongly recommends supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, since medical transport out of the country can be prohibitively expensive or logistically impossible. See the webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Medical Care: Emergency and intensive care facilities are limited. Most Nile cruise boats do not have a ship's doctor, but some employ a medical practitioner. Hospital facilities in Luxor, Aswan, and Sharm el Sheikh are adequate, but they are inadequate at most other ports-of-call. The Egyptian ambulance service hotline is 123. Although availability of ambulances is improving, getting them through Cairo traffic can be very challenging. Beaches on the Mediterranean and Red Sea coasts are generally unpolluted. However, persons who swim in the Nile or its canals, walk barefoot in stagnant water, or drink untreated water are at risk of exposure to bacterial and other infections and the parasitic disease schistosomiasis (bilharzia). It is generally safe to eat freshly prepared cooked food in hotels, on Nile cruise boats, and in mainstream restaurants. When selecting a restaurant, travelers should select a clean and reputable place, eat only freshly prepared, cooked foods, avoid all uncooked food including raw fruits and vegetables. Tap water in some locations is not potable. It is best to drink bottled water or water that has been boiled and filtered. Well-known brands of bottled beverages are generally considered to be safe if the seal is intact. Although the Embassy cannot provide medical advice or provide medical services to the public, a list of hospitals and doctors in Egypt can be found on the Embassy website. Prescriptions: Travelers should carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Travelers should be up-to-date on all recommended vaccinations , per CDC’s information. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
60,"For emergency services in El Salvador, dial 911. Private and public hospitals do not meet U.S. standards. The U.S. Embassy recommends that private hospitals be used only for emergency care to stabilize a condition prior to returning to the United States for definitive evaluation and treatment. Private hospitals and physicians expect up-front payment (cash or credit card). They do not bill U.S. insurance companies. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment The Department of State does not pay medical bills. U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of El Salvador to ensure the medication is legal in El Salvador. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Diarrheal illness Vaccinations: All routinely recommended immunizations for the U.S. should be up-to-date. Measles, mumps, rubella , tetanus, pertussis and chickenpox are much more common than in the U.S., especially among children. Hepatitis A and typhoid immunization is recommended for all travelers. Hepatitis B vaccine is recommended for all those who may have sexual contact, tattoos or require medical treatment while in El Salvador. Yellow Fever : Travelers coming from countries where yellow fever is endemic must have had a yellow fever vaccination in order to enter the country. For more information, visit El Salvador’s Immigration website . Tuberculosis is an increasingly serious health concern in El Salvador. For further information, please consult the CDC’s information on Tuberculosis . You can find detailed information on vaccinations and other health precautions on the following websites: Centers for Disease Control (CDC) World Health Organization (WHO)"
61,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Equatorial Guinea. Medical facilities are limited in terms of space and capability. Pharmacies in Malabo and Bata stock basic medicines including antibiotics but do not carry U.S. brand names or generic over the counter (OTC) medications. Outside of these cities, many medicines are unavailable. You should carry a supply of properly-labeled prescription drugs and other OTC medications adequate to cover your entire stay. Sanitation levels in hospitals are very low, except for the La Paz Malabo Medical Center, a Western level and acute care hospital which meets many of the medical standards of a modern hospital in a developed country. Doctors and hospitals often require immediate payment for health services in cash only (CFA). Patients are sometimes expected to supply their own bandages, linen, and toiletries. For emergency services in Equatorial Guinea, dial 113. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of Equatorial Guinea to ensure the medication is legal in Equatorial Guinea. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Fever Diarrheal illness Polio Rabies Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis Yellow fever Malaria Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. There are many counterfeit antimalarials throughout Equatorial Guinea and you should not plan on purchasing them after arrival."
62,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Eritrea. Consult the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website for Eritrea prior to travel. Medical facilities and physicians are limited. Medicines are in short supply. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Bring preventative and over-the counter medicines with you. For emergency services in Eritrea, dial + (291) 1-202-914 / 201-917 / 201-606. Ambulance services are: Not widely available. Ambulances have minimal equipment; training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the CDC for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the closest Embassy of the State of Eritrea to ensure the medication is legal in Eritrea. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the CDC. Further health information: World Health Organization CDC Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Diarrheal Diseases Malaria (in the lowlands only, outside Asmara): Use the CDC recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the CDC website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Eritrea."
63,"Medical care in Estonia falls short of Western standards outside the larger cities such as Tallinn, Tartu, and Pärnu.  Many medical professionals in Estonia are highly-trained, but some hospitals and clinics still suffer from a lack of equipment and resources.  Many doctors speak at least some English but most nursing staff speak only Russian or Estonian. For emergency services in Estonia, dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash or credit card payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Estonian Agency of Medicines to ensure the medication is legal in Estonia. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. General Health Information: The following diseases are prevalent: Like much of Europe, outbreaks of measles are frequent in Estonia and travelers should have two documented doses of MMR vaccine prior to traveling. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) and Lyme-disease are widespread throughout the country.  Use CDC recommended insect repellents containing either 20% DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus or IR3535 to help diminish bites from ticks and other insects if you intend to visit parks or forested areas (even within parks in Tallinn).  Those who will be camping or have prolonged outdoor exposure should pretreat clothing and equipment with permethrin. There are no vaccines against Lyme disease."
64,"Consult the CDC website for Ethiopia prior to travel. For emergency services in Ethiopia, dial the following numbers: Addis Ababa Police Commission Emergency: 991/922 Fire (Addis Ababa): 939 Traffic Police (Addis Ababa): 945 Ambulance (Ethiopian Red Cross Society in Addis Ababa): 907 Medical care is extremely limited and health care facilities are only adequate for stabilization and emergency care. There is a shortage of physicians and other qualified medical personnel, as well as medical supplies, including, but not limited to, respirators, oxygen, and medications.  Emergency, ambulance, and psychiatric services are also limited. All care providers, both public and private, require payment or a cash deposit in Ethiopian birr before treatment is performed. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Addis Ababa. Ambulances are also not generally staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa will not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Some clinics will require payment prior to service or prior to checkout. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See the Embassy webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. It is strongly recommended that you obtain supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in its original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. If the quantity of drugs exceeds that which would be expected for personal use, a permit from the Ministry of Health is required. Check with the Ethiopian Food and Drug Administration (EFDA) at +251-11-552-41-22 or *8484* to ensure the medication is legal in Ethiopia. Altitude: Many cities in Ethiopia, including Addis Ababa, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about travel to high altitude locations . The following diseases are prevalent in Ethiopia: Diarrheal diseases Cholera Hepatitis A Malaria Measles Meningitis Polio Rabies Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis Typhoid Yellow Fever Vaccinations: Ensure you are up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Note that when traveling to certain other countries from Ethiopia, proof of Yellow Fever vaccination may be required. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals but does not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
65,"For emergency services in Fiji dial 911 or 910. Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Ambulances are often not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication : Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities: Health facilities are available in major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics sometimes lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Adventure Travel: Scuba divers should be aware that Fiji’s hyperbaric chamber is currently not in service, and the nearest chambers are in New Zealand and Australia. While Fiji  continues work to bring a new chamber online, divers should consider insurance that covers both decompression treatment and, if needed, medical evacuation to a third country. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Information: The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya Typhoid Measles Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Fiji."
66,"Medical facilities and staff are generally excellent and widely available for emergency services. English is commonly spoken by Finnish medical personnel. The public hospital system and many private hospitals accept foreign credit cards. Local medical centers, clinics, or first-aid stations are located at hospitals and will provide a full range of services to tourist and temporary visitors. For emergency services in Finland, dial 112 . Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the government of Finland to ensure the medication is legal in Finland. You may bring a 90-day supply of most personal prescription drugs with a formal doctor’s note. Prescribed narcotics may only be brought into Finland for your personal use for a maximum of 14 days and must be accompanied by a medical certificate stating why you need them. Finnish customs regulations prohibit you from receiving medication shipments from abroad.  Local physicians may be reluctant to prescribe equivalent quantities or dosages. For more detailed information, please visit the Finnish National Tourist Board website or contact the Embassy of Finland . Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
67,"Dial 15 to connect to emergency medical services or dial 112 to reach an operator. Ambulance services are widely available, though English is not widely spoken. Medical care is comparable to that found in the United States. Except for emergency services, you may be required to pay for service prior to receiving treatment in France. Be sure to obtain a “Feuille de Soins” for later reimbursement from your health care provider. You may be refused routine care under local law if you lack the ability to pay. Foreigners with terminal illnesses may be denied treatment if treatment is available in their home country. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Hospital bills are not itemized. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of France to ensure the medication is legal in France. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
68,"The Government of French Guiana requires all non-citizens age 12 and over entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in French Guiana. For emergency services in French Guiana, dial 112. You may also reach services directly at: - EMS: 15 - Police: 17 - Fire department: 18 - Child abuse: 119 - Homelessness assistance: 115 - Gender based Violence: 3919 Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Medical care within French Guiana is limited. Hospital facilities are available only in urban areas. Only one hospital, the Centre Hospitalier Andrée Rosemon in Cayenne, has intensive care and trauma units. The Centre Hospitalier de l’Ouest Guyanais in St. Laurent provides more limited hospital services in the western part of French Guiana. Not all medical facilities in French Guiana are air conditioned. You can find prescription and over-the-counter medicines in pharmacies in larger cities, but U.S. brands may not be available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check the French Customs website to ensure the medication is legal in French Guiana. Vaccinations: Proof of vaccination for yellow fever, or written proof from a doctor that yellow fever vaccination is not medically recommended, is required to enter French Guiana. Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent in French Guiana: COVID-19 Dengue Malaria Yellow Fever Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. There are shortages of water, medicine, medical supplies, etc throughout French Guiana. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in French Guiana. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates The U.S. Embassy in Suriname maintains a list of doctors and hospitals in French Guiana.  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight [in non-emergency wards]. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in French Guiana. Pharmaceuticals Check the French Customs website for rules on travelling with specific medications."
69,"Medical treatment is generally good on the major islands, but is limited in more remote or less populated areas. In less populated areas where there are no hospitals, medical assistance can be found at a Dispensaire, a French government-run free clinic. Patients with emergencies or serious illnesses are often referred to facilities on Tahiti for treatment. In emergencies, evacuation by air to Papeete may be required. For medical emergencies in French Polynesia, dial 15 for an ambulance. The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of French Polynesia to ensure the medication is legal in French Polynesia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Travelers should consider being vaccinated for hepatitis A and typhoid, which can be transmitted through contaminated food and water. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
70,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas and that doctors and hospital will expect immediate cash payment for health services. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Hyperbaric chambers are available in Guadeloupe at the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire in Abymes and in Martinique at the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire in Fort de France. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of France to ensure the medication is legal in the French West Indies. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Chikungunya Dengue Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
71,"Medical facilities in Gabon's major cities are limited, but may meet basic needs. Credit cards are not widely accepted in Gabon, and hospitals almost always expect payment, in cash, before rendering service. Medical services in rural areas are unavailable or of very poor quality. Some medicines are not available locally; carry your own supply of medications to cover your entire stay. For medical emergencies in Libreville, the emergency room at El Rapha Polyclinic, a private clinic, can be reached at 07 98 66 60.  An ambulance can be requested by calling El Ralpha directly or by calling 13-00 from a Gabon telecom landline for other ambulance services (SMUR, SAMU). You are responsible for all medical costs. Medical Insurance: If your health insurance plan does not provide coverage overseas, we strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance and medical evacuation plans . Medicare from the United States does not cover you overseas. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow fever Dengue fever Chikungunya Diarrheal illness Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis African trypanosomiasis HIV/AIDS Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
72,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Georgia. For emergency services in Georgia, dial 112 (the equivalent of 911 in the United States) Ambulance services are not widely available outside Tbilisi and training and availability of emergency responders may fall below U.S. standards. Ambulances are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment.  Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Limited Medical Services in Rural Areas: In the event of injury, appropriate medical treatment is typically available only in/near major cities. First responders are generally unable to access areas outside of major cities and to provide urgent medical treatment. U.S. citizens are encouraged to purchase medical evacuation insurance. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We do not pay for medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas, and most hospitals and doctors in Georgia do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan will reimburse you for medical costs expended while overseas. Most health care providers in Georgia only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the CDC website for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Georgia strictly regulates types and quantities of prescription medications that may be brought into the country. Check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Georgia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Travelers carrying prohibited prescription drugs have been detained and face heavy fines or arrest. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the CDC. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of English-speaking doctors and hospitals in Georgia. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in Tbilisi. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling, if necessary. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Georgia has installed and maintains air quality monitors around the country. Real-time data is available at: https://air.gov.ge/en/ . Health Facilities in General: Adequate healthcare facilities are available in Tbilisi, although below U.S. standards. Outside major cities, medical facilities in Georgia are limited. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Georgia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Adventure Travel : Visit the CDC website for more information about Adventure Travel . Other: Travelers with existing health problems may be at risk due to inadequate medical facilities. There is a significant risk of rabies in Georgia. The CDC recommends some travelers complete the rabies vaccine series prior to arriving in country. Some spices made in Georgia contain high levels of lead. Consider purchasing spices only from recognized U.S. or international manufacturers. Georgia has a high rate of Hepatitis C . Exercise caution if you plan to get a tattoo, piercing, dental work , or other procedure with potential for blood exposure. Ensure the provider uses proper sterilization procedures. Ensure food is cooked thoroughly to reduce the risk of food-borne illness Georgia has eight venomous snake species that are active between March and October. Few medical facilities have antivenin serum. Treat all snakes as potentially venomous. Tuberculosis is prevalent in Georgia. Visit the CDC website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Georgia."
73,"COVID-19 Vaccines: The German government has authorized several vaccines , including the Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Astra Zeneca, Janssen/Johnson & Johnson, and Novavax vaccines.  Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Germany has generally high-quality medical care and facilities. Prescription and over-the-counter medicines are widely available although brands and drug names differ from those available in the United States. For emergency services in Germany, dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available. Payment for medical services in Germany: We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance.  If you are not a resident of Germany, doctors and hospitals may expect immediate payment in cash. Credit card payment is not always available. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas or purchase travel insurance for this purpose.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas.  We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The U.S. Embassy and Consulates maintain lists of doctors and medical services in Germany .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Germany. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals If traveling with prescription medication, visit the German customs website to ensure the medication is legal in Germany. For medications that Germany classifies as narcotics, you may only carry a 30-day supply.  A comprehensive list of these medications can be found here. If your medication is on that list, there is an additional requirement for your doctor to complete a certification form .  You will see part E asks for the endorsement of an “issuing authority.”  As there is no such authority in the United States, travelers may have the doctor self-certify the form and enter the information of his or her practice in part E, ideally with a stamp or seal from their office. Due to Germany’s strict customs regulations, you are not allowed to receive prescription medication by mail without special permission.  Always, carry your prescription Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.   Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling overseas to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . All surrogacy arrangements, as well as IVF procedures involving the use of donated eggs, are illegal in Germany.  For additional information, see this webpage of the German Foreign Ministry (German language only). Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
74,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Ghana. Medical facilities in Ghana are limited, particularly outside the capital, Accra. You should carry adequate supplies of any needed prescription medicines, along with copies of your prescriptions, the generic name of the drugs, and a supply of preferred over-the-counter medications. Mosquito-borne illnesses, such as Malaria, Yellow Fever, and Dengue are a significant problem, and prevention of bites and proper Yellow Fever immunization are important for all areas. While in Ghana, you should carry and use insect repellents containing either 20 percent DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus, or IR3535; treat clothing and tents with permethrin; and sleep in screened or air-conditioned rooms under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Refer to the CDC website for health information for travelers to Ghana. For emergency services in Ghana, dial 211. Ambulance services are: Not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Not staffed with trained paramedics, and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ghana Food and Drugs Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Ghana. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General : Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery : Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States, and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Ghana. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals : Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescriptions in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common, and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : If you are considering traveling to Ghana to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Water Quality : In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel : Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health : The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow Fever Dengue Fever Diarrheal Illness Rabies Meningococcal Meningitis Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis Cholera Typhoid Fever Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers, even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Please visit https://www.ghanaids.gov.gh/ for information about HIV/AIDS in Ghana. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Ghana. Air Quality : Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Ghana. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season from October to February. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors."
75,"Most public medical facilities in Greece offer adequate care, although service quality and hospital appearance may differ from the United States. Some private hospitals have affiliations with U.S. facilities and provide high-quality care. Many doctors trained in the United States or elsewhere in Europe. Private hospitals usually require proof of adequate insurance or cash before admitting a patient. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Public hospitals often employ minimal nursing staff overnight and on weekends in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare is not accepted overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. You may be required to pay upfront and seek reimbursement from your insurance company. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend that travelers purchase travel insurance before their trips to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Greek Embassy or consulate in the United States , the Customs office at Athens International Airport (+30 210-3542126) or the National Organization of Medicines ( relation@eof.gr , www.eof.gr , +30 213-204-0000) to ensure the medication is legal in Greece. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
76,"Medical care in Grenada is below U.S. standards. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. Serious medical problems requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the U.S. can cost thousands of dollars. Ambulance service is available, but response times vary greatly. Pharmacies are usually well stocked and prescription medicine is available. A hyperbaric chamber is available in Grenada. Contact the U.S Embassy for a list of local doctors, dentists, pharmacies, and hospitals. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Grenada to ensure the medication is legal in Grenada. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Dengue is prevalent in Grenada. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
77,"The full range of medical care is available in Guatemala City, but medical care outside of the city is limited. Guatemala’s public hospitals frequently experience serious shortages of even the most basic medicines and equipment. Care in private hospitals is generally adequate for most common illnesses and injuries, and many of the medical specialists working in them are U.S.-trained and -certified. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of medical providers and hospitals on our website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Many hospitals in Guatemala require payment prior to treating patients, even if personal insurance will cover the treatment. They do not typically enter into payment plan agreements, and they may decline to discharge you from the hospital if you owe money for treatment. For emergency services in Guatemala, dial 110. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except urbanized areas. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Guatemalan Public Health Ministry to ensure the medication is legal in Guatemala. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
78,"The Government of Guinea requires all non-Guinean citizens age 18 and over entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Guinea. Medical facilities are poorly equipped and extremely limited, both in the capital city and throughout Guinea. Medicines are in short supply and of questionable quality, with counterfeiting of medication a serious issue. Sterility of equipment should not be assumed, and treatment is frequently unreliable. Some private medical facilities provide a better range of treatment options than public facilities but are still well below western standards. Trauma care is extremely limited. Food and water safety concerns are among the most common causes of illnesses in the country. Sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV, are common. For emergency services in Guinea, dial 117. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical evacuation from Guinea to Europe or the United States can cost in the hundreds of thousands of dollars. If traveling with prescription medication, always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Malaria is prevalent throughout the country. Antimalarial prophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. You should: Carry and use insect repellents containing either 20 percent DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon, eucalyptus, or IR3535. Treat clothing and tents with permethrin. Sleep in screened or air-conditioned rooms under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Use antimalarial prophylaxis. The following diseases are present in Guinea: Diarrheal illness Yellow fever Dengue Rabies Meningoccocal meningitis Measles Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Strongly consider optional vaccinations by CDC for West Africa and Guinea. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in Conakry, Guinea. Consider the potential impact of seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution on your health and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season, which begins in late October and continues into late May. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here https://gn.usembassy.gov/wp-content/uploads/sites/218/Local-Clinics-and-Hospitals-Conakry-12-2018.pdf . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
79,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Guinea-Bissau. Modern medical facilities are virtually nonexistent in Guinea-Bissau, and travelers should not rely on them. More acceptable levels of medical care are available in Dakar, Senegal. No emergency services are available in Guinea-Bissau. Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Existing ambulances are not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Guinea-Bissau to ensure the medication is legal in Guinea-Bissau. Always carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Typhoid Tuberculosis Yellow Fever Zika Meningococcal Meningitis Rabies Yellow Fever Vaccinations : Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Water Quality : In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water."
80,"The Government of Guyana requires all non-Guyana citizens ages 18 and over entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Guyana . The quality of medical care in Guyana remains low and inconsistent. Emergency care and hospitalization for major medical illnesses or surgery are limited due to lack of trained specialists and poor sanitation. The tourism industry is unevenly regulated, and safety inspections for equipment and facilities do not commonly occur. Hazardous areas and activities are not always identified with appropriate signage, and staff may not be trained or certified either by the host government or by recognized authorities in the field. Almost 80 percent of Guyana’s territory is covered by forest, beyond the area of paved roads. In the event of an injury, appropriate medical treatment is typically available only in or near major cities. First responders are generally unable to access areas outside of major cities and to provide medical treatment. Purchase medical evacuation insurance in advance of travel. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . For emergency services in Guyana, dial 913. Health facilities in general: Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” or proof of insurance prior to service or admission. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment.  Psychological and psychiatric services are limited. Ambulance Services: Are not widely available, especially in remote parts of the country. Training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Ambulance services are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment and are not staffed with trained paramedics and/or often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers are often taken to nearest hospital by taxi or private vehicle. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Prescriptions: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Guyana to ensure the medication is legal in Guyana. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) General Health Language The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Chagas disease (American Trypanosomiasis) COVID-19 Dengue Leishmaniasis Malaria Yellow Fever Zika Use the CDC recommended insect repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers, even for short stays. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
81,"The Government of Haiti requires all non-Haiti citizens age 12 and over entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, or to present a negative COVID test. Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Haiti. Medical facilities, including ambulance services, are scarce and generally sub-standard, especially outside the capital. Life-threatening emergencies often require evacuation to a point outside of Haiti by air ambulance at the patient's expense. Lists of doctors, hospitals, and air ambulance services are available at the Embassy website. There is no functional national emergency services line in Haiti. The Embassy maintains a list of emergency telephone contacts. Ambulance services may not be reliable in an emergency. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Ambulance services are: Not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Often not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Haitian Ministry of Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in Haiti. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics often lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Water Quality In most areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya Malaria Cholera Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. There are shortages of food, water, medicine, medical supplies, etc. throughout Haiti. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Haiti."
82,"Staff, facilities, and supplies in Honduras often do not meet U.S. medical standards. There are adequate facilities in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula for advanced surgical procedures in case of non-elective emergencies. Honduras lacks the infrastructure to maintain water purity and food safety. Diarrheal illness is very common even in large cities and luxury accommodations. Only sealed commercial water containers (bottles) are considered safe to drink. Air pollution can aggravate or lead to respiratory problems during the dry season due to widespread forest fires and agricultural burning. The State Department and the U.S. Embassy will not pay your medical bills: Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Prescription medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of Honduras in Washington, D.C . to ensure the medication is legal in Honduras. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Always ensure you have enough medicine to cover your travel time, and research its availability in Honduras, or whether there is a viable replacement. Medical Marijuana: Marijuana, even for medicinal use and with a prescription, is illegal in Honduras. A traveler who is found to have any amount of marijuana in their possession (including vape cartridges, edibles, organic cannabis, etc.) will face criminal prosecution for possession or trafficking. The following diseases are prevalent in Honduras: Chikungunya Dengue Fever Malaria Zika COVID-19 Please review the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website for further information. Vaccinations: Honduras requires proof of Yellow Fever immunization if traveling to or coming from another country endemic with Yellow Fever. Check with your airline for vaccine requirements and be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
83,"For emergency services in Hong Kong, dial 999. Ambulance services are widely available. Quality of Care: Good medical facilities are available, and there are many Western-trained physicians. Hong Kong emergency service response times for police, fire, and ambulances are good. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our Insurance Providers for Overseas Coverage page for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Payment and Insurance: Travelers will be asked to post a deposit prior to admission to hospitals to cover the expected cost of treatment. Hospitals and clinics generally accept credit cards. U.S. Consulate General Hong Kong & Macau maintains a list of local English-speaking doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medication : Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Prescription drugs are widely available, although names may vary. You need a prescription from a doctor in Hong Kong to purchase medications locally. Bring prescription medications to cover your stay in Hong Kong or plan to see a physician in Hong Kong to obtain a new prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Hong Kong to ensure the medication is legal in Hong Kong. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality in Hong Kong varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the summer. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens; People over 65 years of age; People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes; and People who work or are active outdoors. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the CDC. COVID-19 Testing: COVID-19 PCR tests are available at private laboratories and clinics in Hong Kong. The price for these PCR tests generally ranges from 50 to 100 US Dollars. The Hong Kong government maintains a list of recognized laboratories . Rapid COVID-19 tests are readily available at pharmacies and retail establishments throughout Hong Kong. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizen residents of Hong Kong. The Hong Kong government maintains information on Hong Kong’s COVID-19 vaccination program . U.S. citizens who are not Hong Kong residents are not eligible to receive Hong Kong government-provided vaccines. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. For further health information : World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
84,"The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also provides Traveler Health Information for Hungary . For emergency services in Hungary dial: 104 for Ambulance Services 107 for the Police 105 for the Fire Department 112 for English-Speaking Emergency Responders (All Types of Emergencies) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Ambulance services are widely available in Hungary, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. All ambulances may not be equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Adequate health facilities are available in the capital and other major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Some hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Some private clinics and hospitals may require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Prescription Medication: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of Hungary to ensure the medication is legal in Hungary. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Prescription and over-the-counter medicines are widely available at pharmacies. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Hungarian law forbids surrogacy arrangements."
85,"COVID-19 Testing: COVID PCR and antigen tests are available for U.S. citizens in Iceland and results are available within 72 hours. Visit the Iceland government’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID testing. PCR tests that are not conducted upon request are at the citizen’s expense and average 7000ISK or $54. Antigen rapid tests are provided by private companies and the price varies between them. Test results are provided via text message or via e-mail. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Iceland. Visit the Iceland government’s COVID-19 page for more information about obtaining the COVID-19 vaccine in Iceland.  Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Medical care in Iceland is of high quality, but limited services are available outside large, urban areas. The Icelandic medical system offers coverage only for people who live in Iceland. Non-residents are expected to pay their own medical costs, and you should be prepared to pay your bill in full before leaving the hospital or clinic. For emergency services in Iceland, dial 112 . For non-emergency medical assistance in the Reykjavik metropolitan area, dial 544-4114 during business hours. During non-business hours, dial 1770. Ambulance services are: Not present throughout the country or have long response times  except in or near major population areas such as Reykjavik.  Iceland does have air ambulance services, but they are limited by weather and distance to the patient. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments, though most hospitals and clinics in Iceland do accept credit cards.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage .  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the government of Iceland to ensure the medication is legal in Iceland. Please review the CDC guidance on purchasing medicine overseas. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals.  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in the Reykjavik area and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be limited or unavailable. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals if the patient is not a permanent resident or citizen of Iceland. Psychological and psychiatric services are available but in-patient care is frequently operating at capacity, and patients may require a wait-time for admission. Hospital-based care is only available in larger cities. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy Surrogacy is illegal in Iceland. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Icerland"
86,"Zika is present in India. See the Centers for Disease Control’s website for more information. The quality of medical care in India varies considerably. Medical care in the major population centers approaches and occasionally meets Western standards, but adequate medical care is usually very limited or unavailable in rural areas. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of India to ensure the medication is legal in India.  Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If you are arriving in India from Sub-Saharan Africa or other yellow-fever areas, Indian health regulations require that you present evidence of vaccination against yellow fever. If you do not have such proof, you could be subjected to immediate deportation or a six-day detention in the yellow-fever quarantine center. If you transit through any part of sub-Saharan Africa, even for one day, you are advised to carry proof of yellow fever immunization. Dogs and bats create a high risk of rabies transmission in most of India. Vaccination is recommended for all prolonged stays, especially for young children and travelers in rural areas. It is also recommended for shorter stays that involve occupational exposure, locations more than 24 hours from a reliable source of human rabies immune globulin and rabies vaccine for post-exposure treatment, adventure travelers, hikers, cave explorers, and backpackers. Monkeys also can transmit rabies and herpes B, among other diseases, to human victims. Avoid feeding monkeys. If bitten, you should immediately soak and scrub the bite for at least 15 minutes and seek urgent medical attention. Influenza is transmitted from November to April in areas north of the Tropic of Cancer (north India), and from June through November (the rainy season) in areas south of the Tropic of Cancer (south India), with a smaller peak from February through April; off-season transmission can also occur. All travelers are at risk. Influenza vaccine is recommended for all travelers during the flu season. Outbreaks of avian influenza (H5N1 virus) occur intermittently in eastern India, including West Bengal, Manipur, Sikkim, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Assam. For further information on pandemic influenza, please refer to the Department of State's 2009-H1N1, Pandemic Influenza, and H5N1 Fact Sheet . Malaria prophylaxis depends on time of year and area the traveler is visiting. Please consult the CDC website for more information. Dengue fever presents significant risk in urban and rural areas. The highest number of cases is reported from July to December, with cases peaking from September to October. Daytime insect precautions such as wearing long-sleeved shirts and mosquito repellent are recommended by the CDC. Tuberculosis is an increasingly serious health concern in India. For further information, please consult the CDC’s Travel Notice on TB . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in India, and you should consult your doctor prior to travel and consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you.  The air quality in India varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst in the winter. Anyone who travels where pollution levels are high is at risk. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Current air quality data can be found on the Embassy’s Air Quality page . The data on this site are updated hourly. Rh-negative blood may be difficult to obtain as it is not common in Asia. For emergency services, dial 112 from a cell phone; from a land line, dial 100 for police, 102 for ambulance (108 in parts of South India), and 101 for fire. Ambulances are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment, and traffic does not yield to emergency vehicles. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Most hospitals require advance payment or confirmation of insurance prior to treatment. Payment practices vary and credit cards are not routinely accepted for medical care. Medical Tourism: Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. Companies offering vacation packages bundled with medical consultations and financing options provide direct-to-consumer advertising over the internet. Such medical packages often claim to provide high quality care, but the quality of health care in India is highly variable. People seeking health care in India should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and refer to the information from the CDC . Persons traveling to India for medical purposes require the proper “medical” visa. Please check with the nearest Indian embassy or consulate for more information. Despite reports of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in hospitals, in general travelers should not delay or avoid treatment for urgent or emergent medical situations. However, health tourists and other travelers who may be contemplating elective procedures in this country should carefully research individual hospital infection control practices. Surrogacy: Commercial surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in India, subject to complex local regulation.  For additional information, visit the Government of India’s official information on foreigner surrogacy . The U.S. Embassy and Consulates General in India maintain lists of local doctors and hospitals, all of which are published on their respective websites under ""U.S. Citizen Services."" We cannot endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
87,"The Government of Indonesia requires all non-Indonesian citizens entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Indonesia. Medical Care: For emergency services in Indonesia dial 112. Sanitation and health care conditions in Indonesia are far below U.S. standards. Routine medical care is available in all major cities, although most expatriates leave the country for all but the most basic medical procedures. Physicians and hospitals often expect payment or sizable deposits before providing medical care, even in emergency and/or life-threatening situations. See our Embassy's website for a list of English-speaking doctors and hospitals, but keep in mind that even in large cities the quality of English-speaking medical personnel will vary and there are often communication difficulties. In remote areas there may be no English-speaking medical personnel. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Ambulance services are not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Ambulances are not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, which can exceed over $100,000 per person. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Be aware that Indonesian authorities may consider some prescription drugs as illegal narcotics. The Indonesian government does not publish a list of which pharmaceuticals are considered contraband, and these decisions may be arbitrary. U.S. citizens are advised against mailing or shipping by courier any medications to Indonesia. Indonesian authorities pay close attention to packages containing pharmaceuticals and may detain or arrest recipients of both prescription and over the counter medications. Even if a medication is legal or has been prescribed in the United States, it may be considered an illegal narcotic in Indonesia. U.S. citizens are advised to only hand carry prescription medications into the country, in the original packaging with a copy of any prescription. The U.S. Embassy and Consulates cannot assist you with the importation and/or release of medications. Marijuana, Cannabis, hash, “edibles,” and products containing CBD or THC remain illegal in Indonesia, including for medicinal purposes.  A medical prescription does not make it legal. Local pharmacies carry a range of products of variable quality, availability, and cost. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a significant risk; patronize only reputable pharmacies. Malaria, dengue, Japanese encephalitis, and Zika virus are mosquito borne diseases in Indonesia. Prevention of mosquito bites is strongly encouraged; malaria preventive medication is needed in some areas. Pregnant women should be aware that Indonesia is a CDC Zika risk area and that Zika can be spread by mosquitos as well as sexual contact . Diarrheal diseases are very common throughout Indonesia and food and water precautions are recommended. Rabies is prevalent in animals and animal contact should be avoided. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. See the OPTIONAL stock language below for additional suggestions. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Indonesia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Indonesia. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Indonesia. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Indonesia. Consider the impact smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
88,"For more information on COVID-19, visit our dedicated page at the U.S. Virtual Embassy to Iran. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Basic medical care and medicine are available in the principal cities but may not be available in rural areas in Iran. Medical facilities do not meet U.S. standards and sometimes lack medicine and supplies. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Iran particularly in Ahvaz, Tehran, and Zabol. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with local authorities to ensure the medication is legal in Iran. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
89,"Visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Iraq. Basic, modern medical care and medicines are not widely available in Iraq and do not meet U.S. standards. A limited number of companies facilitate medical evacuations. Blood banks exist in Iraq, though the blood supply may not be sufficient in the event of an emergency and likely has not been tested under U.S. standards for infectious disease. There is limited mental health or psychiatric care in Iraq. For ambulance services dial 122. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. They are not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage .  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in the original packaging along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Prevalent Diseases: Tuberculosis MERS COVID-19 Cholera Food-borne illnesses Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not safe to drink. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Iraq. Seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may be especially harmful to the following people: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
90,"Patients who do not receive benefits from Ireland’s Department of Social Protection are expected to pay all costs up-front at the time of treatment and apply for reimbursement from their insurance provider later. Modern medical facilities and highly skilled medical practitioners are available in Ireland. Expect long waits for access to medical specialists and admissions to hospitals for non-life-threatening medical conditions. It is not unusual for emergency room services to be very busy or for post-treatment admissions to include a long wait (sometimes overnight) on a gurney in a hallway. We advise you carry your medical history, along with a detailed list of any medication you currently take (including dosage and brand name) in your wallet or purse and luggage. Most types of over-the-counter medications are available but many U.S. brands are not. Some medications available over the counter in the United States may require a prescription in Ireland. Irish pharmacists may not be able to dispense medication prescribed by U.S. physicians and may direct you to obtain a prescription from an Irish doctor. A list of Irish general practitioners in each area of Ireland may be obtained from the website of the Irish College of General Practitioners . Ambulance services are widely available. For emergency services in Ireland, dial 112 or 999. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Government of Ireland to ensure the medication is legal in Ireland. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
91,"Modern medical care and medicines are available in Israel. Some hospitals in Israel and most hospitals in the West Bank and Gaza, however, fall below Western standards. Travelers can find information in English about emergency medical facilities and after-hours pharmacies in the Jerusalem Post and the English-language edition of the Ha'aretz newspaper, or refer to the U.S. Embassy’s medical information list . Ambulance services are widely available in Israel. Ambulance services in the West Bank are available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. The U.S. government does not have knowledge of ambulance services in Gaza. The Palestinian Red Crescent Society (PRCS) operates in the West Bank and Gaza. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas, including for COVID-19. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (see our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Israel Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Israel. Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most health care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . For further health information, go to : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout Israel but health care in the West Bank and Gaza may be below U.S. standards. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication may only be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Israel to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is subject to complex local regulation. For additional information, visit the Israel Ministry of Health website for information on surrogacy. Water Quality In many areas of the West Bank and Gaza, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
92,"For emergency services in Italy, dial 112 . Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Medical facilities are available but may be limited outside urban areas. Public hospitals may not maintain the same standards as hospitals in the United States. It is not possible to obtain an itemized hospital bill from public hospitals, as required by many U.S. insurance companies, because the Italian National Health Service charges one inclusive rate for care services and room and board. Private hospitals require you to pay for all services up front and get reimbursed later from your insurance company. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. In Italy, end-of-life directives are not legal. Tourists should know that by law, hospitals will continue with lifesaving procedures indefinitely regardless of a person’ preferences stated in a will or advanced directive. Pharmaceuticals: The Italian Ministry of Health sets rules defining who and how prescriptions and medications can be imported into Italy. However, the Ministry of Health website does not have information in English. According to the Ministry of Health, foreigners entering Italy are allowed to bring personal medications for a period of 30 days, but it is recommended that travelers also bring a copy of their prescription with them. Travelers should not bring excess supplies of prescription drugs into the country and cannot bring prescription drugs for other people. The import of medications into Italy by courier services or by mail is strictly regulated by Italian Customs laws. Italian customs clears all incoming shipments of medications, even small amounts for personal use. Delays in the release of medications by Italian Customs received by mail or by courier services are common. The receiving party must be able to provide a statement signed by a physician licensed in Italy, certifying: The medication is essential for the patient, that he/she would be put in a life-threatening situation without it. There is no substitute or equivalent medication available on the Italian market. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with minimal controls. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Many cities in Italy have air pollution levels similar to those in major U.S. cities. In parts of Italy, the lack of adequate trash disposal and incineration sites has led to periodic accumulations of garbage. In some cases, residents have burned garbage, resulting in toxic emissions that can aggravate respiratory problems. Visit the European Environment Agency’s website for information on air quality in Italy. Health Facilities: The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Adequate health facilities are available throughout Italy, but health services may be below U.S. standards. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. In most cases, patients bear costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Italy. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
93,"For emergency services in Jamaica, dial 119 . Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas, especially in rural areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Traffic congestion and road conditions may slow response times. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Government of Jamaica to ensure the medication is legal in Jamaica. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Health facilities may be below U.S. standards, especially when it comes to mental health care and specialty care. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Private hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Be aware that some hotels and resorts have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya HIV/AIDS COVID 19 Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Jamaica."
94,"For police service in Japan, dial 110. For fire or ambulance, dial 119. Ambulance services are widely available but receiving hospitals may decline to accept inbound patients unless they can provide proof of funds to pay for services. COVID-19 Testing: Travelers should contact Japanese local health providers to determine the location of testing facilities within Japan. A non-comprehensive list of some COVID-19 testing facilities can be found here on the Embassy website. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Japan. Review the Government of Japan’s English language website on COVID-19 vaccinations in Japan. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Japan’s Ministry of Health website to ensure the medication is legal in Japan; possession, use, or importation of a prescription drug that is illegal in Japan may result in arrest and criminal prosecution. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. U.S. prescriptions are not honored in Japan, so if you need ongoing prescription medicine, you should arrive with a sufficient supply for your stay in Japan or enough until you are able to see a local care provider. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Japan has a national health insurance system which is available only to those foreigners with long-term visas for Japan. National health insurance does not pay for medical evacuation. Medical caregivers in Japan require payment in full at the time of treatment or concrete proof of ability to pay before they will treat a foreigner who is not a member of the national health insurance plan. U.S.-style and standard psychological and psychiatric care can be difficult to locate outside of major urban centers in Japan and generally is not available outside of Japan's major cities. Extended psychiatric care [GTJ1] [RAD2]  can be very difficult to obtain."
95,"Modern medical care and medicines are generally available in Jordan’s main cities but not always in outlying areas. Most acute and chronic medical conditions can be treated. When called, ambulances are often slow to arrive and personnel generally have only a basic level of training. Most hospitals in Jordan, especially in Amman, are privately owned. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment or a high deposit for services. Seasonal dust storms that envelop the country for days or weeks each spring may significantly aggravate respiratory conditions such as asthma or sinus problems. For emergency services in Jordan, dial 911 . Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General: Adequate health facilities are available in Amman but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Jordan. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Jordan. Persons traveling to Jordan for medical purposes require the proper “medical” visa. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: Surrogacy is illegal in Jordan. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Air Quality: The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the spring. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
96,"Options for medical care are limited and well below U.S. standards. U.S. citizens often depart Kazakhstan for medical treatment, including many routine procedures. Some prescriptions and over-the-counter medicines are not widely available in Kazakhstan. For emergency services in Kazakhstan call the Rescue Service by dialing 112. Other provider numbers are: 101 for Fire, 102 for Police, 103 for Emergency Medical Assistance, and 104 in the event of a gas leak. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except in major cities. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Doctors and hospitals often expect cash payment for health services. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with Kazakhstan’s National Center for Expertise to ensure the medication is legal in Kazakhstan. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Earthquakes: Kazakhstan is an earthquake-prone country. The U.S. Department of State has ranked the earthquake threat level within the Almaty region as Level 4 (the highest level assigned). Building practices within Kazakhstan do not generally meet U.S. seismic standards. Local authorities do not have sufficient resources to respond to a large-scale disaster. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
97,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Kenya. Medical services are adequate in Nairobi for most medical conditions and emergencies. In the event of an injury, appropriate medical treatment is typically available only in or near the major cities of Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu. First responders generally are unable to access areas outside of major cities and to provide urgent medical treatment. U.S. citizens are encouraged to purchase medical evacuation insurance and carry emergency numbers. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . For emergency services in Kenya, dial 999 , 112 , or 911 . Ambulance services are: Not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, and Eldoret; Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment; and Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. You may need to call your insurance company or pay and get reimbursed. Surrogacy: Surrogacy programs in Kenya are unregulated and families have reported difficulties obtaining required legal documentation from Kenyan authorities and taking children out of Kenya; difficulties may increase if a parent is single. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Government of Kenya to ensure the medication is legal in Kenya. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Dengue Schistosomiasis Traveler’s Diarrhea Cholera Tuberculosis Measles Rabies Hepatitis A Hepatitis B HIV Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Kenya. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
98,"For emergency services in Kiribati, dial 994 for ambulance and 993 for fire. Health care throughout Kiribati, including Tarawa, is substandard. Travelers may encounter shortages of routine medications and supplies. Hospital accommodations are inadequate throughout the country, and advanced technology is lacking. Serious medical conditions requiring hospitalization or evacuation to the United States or elsewhere may cost thousands of dollars. Kiribati has no funeral homes with embalming or cremation services. Ambulance services are: Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment and often have little or no medical equipment at all. Not staffed with trained paramedics Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Limited in availability throughout the country The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas, including in Kiribati, only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Kiribati Customs and MFA to ensure the medication is legal in Kiribati. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State Health facilities in general: The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available.  Hospitals and medical professionals may require cash payments. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Water Quality Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. You should regard all water as a potential health risk. You should not drink any water that is not bottled, boiled, or otherwise sterilized. You should cook vegetables and peel fruit before eating it. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Concerns The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Leprosy Diarrheal diseases Giardia Typhoid Fever Fungal infection Respiratory infections Diabetes Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Kiribati."
99,"Medical facilities in Kosovo consist of the government-sponsored University Clinical Center and private medical clinics. Medical facilities outside Pristina have limited capabilities . Quality controls are lacking, services are very basic, hygiene may be insufficient, and medical care is below U.S. or Western European standards. United States or Western European-licensed physicians and specialists are not available in Kosovo. If you encounter corruption while obtaining medical care, please report it to the local authorities. Kosovo has few ambulances. Ambulances will take you to the public hospital. Injured or seriously ill U.S. citizens may be required to take taxis or other immediately available vehicles to the nearest major hospital rather than waiting for ambulances to arrive. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Kosovo to ensure the medication is legal in Kosovo. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Some prescription medication may not be available locally. Tap water is not potable or safe to drink. Take care that food is cooked thoroughly to reduce the risk of food-borne illness. Air pollution is a severe problem in the greater Pristina area, particularly during the winter. Travelers with upper respiratory ailments or asthma-like symptoms should consult their doctor prior to travel. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following CDC-recommended vaccines for children are not available in Kosovo : Hib, Rotavirus, Inactivated Polio, Pneumococcal, and Varicella. If you are planning on traveling from Kosovo to Mecca please be aware of the MERS Corona Virus Advisory . For more information please see our Hajj Fact Sheet and the Saudi Ministry of Health website . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
100,"Healthcare is adequate and accessible both in the government-run system and many private institutions. The government facilities provide services for foreigners at reasonable costs, and payment for all services is expected in advance. Government facilities offer more specialty care services, though wait times are often long and difficult to access for non-nationals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Some medical services are below U.S. standards. Most prescription and over-the-counter medicines are readily available at pharmacies. Emergency services are generally very responsive. For emergency services in Kuwait, dial 112 . Ambulance services are widely available in certain areas but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills: Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers in Kuwait will accept cash or credit card payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Embassy of Kuwait in Washington, DC, the Consulate General of Kuwait in Los Angeles , the Consulate General of Kuwait in New York City , or the Kuwait General Administration for Customs (Email : minfo@customs.gov.kw.com . Telephone: (+965) 24955000, Fax: (+965) 24838056) to ensure the medication is legal in Kuwait. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Kuwait Ministry of Health . Please note that Kuwait’s vaccination requirements for residents are different and may require more inoculations than recommended by the CDC. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in Kuwait. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of dental clinics , and the Kuwaiti government maintains a list of hospitals and pharmacies . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
101,"Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. U.S. citizens often travel outside of the Kyrgyz Republic for medical treatment, including many routine procedures. Medical staff rarely speak English, and prices for treatment are not fixed. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. For emergency services in the Kyrgyz Republic, dial 112. Ambulance services are not widely available, and the training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Emergency responders may not be present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Bishkek, Osh, and other large cities. Ambulances are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment and are typically not staffed with trained paramedics. Injured or seriously ill travelers, particularly outside of metropolitan areas, may prefer to take a taxi, private ambulance, or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Always carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Prescriptions must be translated into Russian. Check with the Ministry of Health’s register of medications to ensure that your medication is legal in the Kyrgyz Republic. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Altitude Many cities in the Kyrgyz Republic are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The security situation remains fluid in areas along the Kyrgyz-Tajik and Kyrgyz-Uzbek borders due to simmering ethnic and cross-border tensions, as well as the presence of narco-trafficking routes. Border areas are closed to foreigners and restrictions are enforced along the Chinese, Tajik, and Uzbek borders. Border areas with Tajikistan in Batken province are particularly sensitive and the location of a significant police and military presence. Tuberculosis is prevalent in the Kyrgyz Republic. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Kyrgyz Republic. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in the Kyrgyz Republic. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the winter. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
102,"For emergency services in Laos, dial 0192 (tourist police) or 0195 (ambulance). Medical facilities and services in Laos are extremely limited and may not meet basic international standards. Contact information for hospitals/clinics is found here . We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers accept only cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Every year the Embassy sees cases of U.S. citizens who fall ill in Laos and are unable to get necessary health care because they don’t have adequate insurance. Serious medical cases frequently require medical evacuation to private hospitals in Thailand by ground ambulance or air ambulance. Hospitals in Thailand and Laos require large deposits prior to treating patients. The State Department does not pay medical bills. Border Crossing Hours: All of the land border crossings between Laos and neighboring countries close during the night hours. The Friendship Bridge that connects Vientiane to Nong Khai, Thailand, closes from 10 p.m. – 6 a.m. daily. While it is generally possible for ambulances to cross the Vientiane friendship bridge after hours, it sometimes takes several hours to arrange for the crossing to be opened, even in cases of severe medical emergencies. Travelers should inquire locally about the hours of other border crossings . Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Lao Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the medication is legal in Laos. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
103,"The quality of medical care in Latvia continues to improve but often falls short of Western standards. Latvia has highly trained medical professionals, but hospitals and clinics suffer from a lack of equipment and resources. Many doctors speak at least limited English. There are few private clinics in major cities that offer services equal to Western European or U.S. standards. Western-quality dental care can be obtained in Riga. Payment is expected upon admission at private hospitals. Prescription Medicines : Pharmaceuticals sold in Latvia are produced by companies certified in accordance with EU standards but may not be labeled the same as in the United States. For general emergency services in Latvia, dial 112. For medical emergency services, dial 113. Ambulance services are available in urban areas but not countrywide. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance in rural areas. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors in Latvia do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Latvian Medicines Register Medicinal Product Register of Latvia to ensure the medication is legal in Latvia. General Health Information: The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis . Tick-borne encephalitis and Lyme-disease are widespread throughout the country. Use CDC recommended insect repellents containing either 20% DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus or IR3535 to help diminish bites from ticks and other insects if you intend to visit parks or forested areas. Tick-borne encephalitis vaccinations are given as a series of three doses, and are not available in the United States. There are no vaccines against Lyme disease. Hepatitis A is a significant health concern in Latvia. Hepatitis A vaccine is available in the US and is recommended for those with prolonged stays or travel in rural areas. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals Medical Resources . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
104,"For emergency services in Lebanon dial 112. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay the medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Lebanon Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Lebanon. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Water Quality: In all areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Beirut, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always accepted; most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment, often in U.S. dollars. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may have limited English proficiency. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Pharmaceuticals Due to the current economic situation in Lebanon, many medications are not available in pharmacies and medical facilities. Exercise caution when purchasing medication outside the United States. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments . Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Lebanon. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
105,"Medical facilities in Lesotho are limited and ambulance service is unreliable. Specialist care is available in Bloemfontein, South Africa, 90 miles away. U.S. Embassy Maseru maintains a list of physicians and other health care professionals , but does not guarantee service or provide recommendations. Health care in Lesotho itself does not meet Western standards. There are few dependable specialists in town and there is a fully equipped emergency room at Queen Mamohato Memorial Hospital which can be used to stabilize a patient only. There is a small private hospital, Maseru Private Hospital, which has thirty-two available beds, a small operating theater, radiology, and lab services. However, the facility is under-utilized by residents because of the excessive cost of care. As a result, services there are unreliable, with the x-ray equipment frequently being out of order and a constant change over in staff. A better choice for medical stabilization of emergencies, basic x-ray services, simple hospitalizations (i.e., IV re-hydration) and basic emergency care is the Wilies Clinic, run by the PMA, Dr. Hoedoafia. The facility is clean, well-equipped with basic supplies and medications, and Dr. Hoedoafia is available 24/7. Medical services in Bloemfontein are excellent. Employees frequently go there for specialty consultations. In any emergency, patients would be stabilized at the any of the 3 hospitals and then transported by car, ambulance or helicopter to the Medi-Clinic in Bloemfontein. The medevac center for Maseru is Pretoria. All the hospitals have pharmacies for OTC and prescription refills. For emergency services in Lesotho, dial Landline: +266 22326690, Cell:+266 80012121/+266 5834 9286. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except in Maseru, Mafeteng, Berea, Leribe and Mohale’s Hoek Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. VITALITY AMBULANCE MASERU Contact person: Dr Malebohang Raleche Landline: +266 22326690 Cell:+266 80012121/+266 5834 9286 We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Lesotho, and its MFA to ensure the medication is legal in Lesotho. Always carry an adequate supply of your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Lesotho has one of the highest HIV rates in the world. Approximately one-quarter of the adult population of Lesotho infected with HIV. Travelers are advised to practice safe sex if engaging in sexual activity, or if exposed to blood products through injuries or rendering assistance to accident victims. The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis (TB) Schistosomiasis African Tick-Bite Fever Hantavirus Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Measles Chikungunya Helminths Leptosporisis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) OPTIONAL stock language for Health section on special circumstances : Health facilities in general: No adequate health facilities are available in Lesotho. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission.[Credit card payment is not always available. Some hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or letter of guarantee of payment. Be aware that some hotels, resorts, etc. have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak fluent English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit and substandard medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Lesotho. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Water Quality: In Maseru, tap water is potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Lesotho, are at high altitude. Beware of the symptoms of altitude sickness, and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . General Health Language: Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Lesotho has one of the highest HIV rates in the world. Approximately one-quarter of the adult population of Lesotho is infected with HIV. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Lesotho. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Lesotho. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
106,"Hospitals and medical facilities in Liberia are poorly equipped and are incapable of providing many services. Emergency services comparable to those in the United States or Europe are non-existent, and the blood supply is unreliable and unsafe for transfusion. For serious medical problems, you should consider traveling to the United States, Europe, or South Africa for treatment. Within Liberia, medicines are scarce, often beyond expiration dates, possibly counterfeit, and generally unavailable in most areas. Malaria and yellow fever are prevalent throughout the country. Yellow fever immunization is required to enter Liberia and recommended for all residents. Chemoprophylaxis (anti-malarial medication) is recommended for all travelers, even for short stays. You should: Carry and use insect repellents containing either 20 percent DEET, picaridin, oil of lemon eucalyptus or IR3535. Treat clothing and tents with permethrin. Sleep in screened or air-conditioned rooms under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Emergency services are absent or are unreliable in most areas. Some medical facilities in Monrovia do have ambulances but they use these vehicles primarily for patient transport. Emergency services such as those in the United States do not exist in Liberia. Ambulances are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Ambulances are not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Liberia to ensure the medication is legal in Liberia. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases and medical hazards are prevalent: Malaria Yellow Fever Typhoid Hepatitis A, B, and C Rabies Diarrheal Illnesses Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis Onchocerciasis Lassa Fever Rickettsial Infections Snake Bites Sexually Transmitted Infections Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
107,"While some health care providers have been trained in the United States or Europe, basic modern medical care and/or medicines may not be available in Libya. Many Libyan citizens prefer to be treated outside Libya for serious medical conditions. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Libyan Embassy in Washington, D.C . to ensure the medication is legal in Libya. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription."
108,"For emergency services in Liechtenstein dial 144, or 117 for police. Medical care is comparable to that found in the United States. Ambulance services are widely available. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Swiss medical facilities and care providers will ask for you to settle your bills onsite and you will have to claim a refund with your insurer later. It is common for hospitals to ask for a deposit to ensure medical costs will be covered. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Medications: Over-the-counter medicine is available at pharmacies and a pharmacist is on call 24/7. Information regarding the pharmacy and pharmacist on duty in your area can be obtained over the medical emergency telephone line by dialing 144. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Swiss Federal Customs Administration to ensure the medication is legal in Switzerland or Liechtenstein. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is common. Travelers planning high-risk activities (camping, adventure travel) should take precautions. See the website of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for more details on TBE and TBE prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
109,"Medical care in Lithuania has improved, but facilities may be limited outside urban areas. Medical facilities do not always meet Western standards. Payment is expected upon admission at private hospitals . For emergency services in Lithuania, dial 112 (English-speaking operators are available) Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Please review the Lithuanian rules for importing medication into Lithuania here . The Lithuanian government does not require HIV testing for U.S. citizens. Sexually transmitted diseases are a growing public health problem. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) General Health The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) Lyme disease Rabies Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Lithuania."
110,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription or be prepared to show that it is required for your personal use. As there are very limited flights coming to Luxembourg from outside the Schengen area, follow the guidelines for medications allowed into the Schengen area. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
111,"For emergency services in Macau, dial 999. Ambulance services are widely available. Quality of Care: Several major hospitals in Macau have adequate medical facilities, and the Kiang Wu and Conde de Sao Januario hospitals are able to provide emergency medical care. Highly developed medical facilities and trained personnel are available in Hong Kong, which is about an hour by jetfoil, 1-2 hours by car, and twenty minutes by helicopter from Macau. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See Insurance Providers for Overseas Coverage page for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Payment and Insurance: Travelers will be asked to post a deposit prior to admission to hospitals to cover the expected cost of treatment. Hospitals and clinics generally accept credit cards. U.S. Consulate General Hong Kong & Macau maintains a list of local English-speaking doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medication : Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Prescription drugs are widely available, although names may vary. You need a prescription from a doctor in Macau to purchase medications locally. Bring prescription medications to cover your stay in Macau or plan to see a physician in Macau to obtain a new prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Macau to ensure the medication is legal Macau. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is an increasing concern in Macau. Congested vehicle traffic and mainland factories pump out ozone, sulfur, and nitrogen oxides, leading to a visible haze in the atmosphere on most days of the year. Average roadside pollution levels exceed World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines and may cause health risks for those with allergies, asthma, or cardiac problems. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens; People over 65 years of age; People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes; and People who work or are active outdoors. Disease: Hepatitis A, Hepatitis B, Typhoid, Chikungunya (via mosquitoes), Avian Influenza, and Hand, Foot, and Mouth disease. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the CDC. COVID-19 Testing: COVID-19 PCR tests are available at private laboratories and clinics in Macau . The price for these PCR tests generally ranges from 50 to 100 US Dollars. Rapid COVID-19 tests are readily available at pharmacies and retail establishments throughout Macau. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available in Macau for U.S. citizen residents of Macau. Please see here for more information. Visit the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)'s website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. For further health information : World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
112,"COVID-19 Testing: U.S. citizens may obtain a COVID-19 test from their local health care provider and laboratories in North Macedonia. Testing fees must be paid by the patient. Prices range from 1,200 – 5,000 denars, depending on the laboratory and type of test, and are subject to change. Fees are payable in cash or credit card.  English translation of COVID-19 test results is available at an extra cost. Test results may be obtained via e-mail or as a physical paper copy. Testing is also available at private laboratories. Medical care in North Macedonia varies in quality by location and provider. Skopje has four private hospitals that offer services ranging from cardiovascular surgery to pediatric intensive care.  Quality of care is not equal to U.S. health care.  Outside Skopje, medical care is substandard, with the exception of trauma services in Ohrid. For emergency services in North Macedonia, dial 112 (general emergency line) or 194 (direct for ambulance). Ambulance services are: Not widely available, except in Skopje and major tourist areas, such as Ohrid. Training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. A government formulary controls which prescription medications are available; the list does not include several medications available in most Western countries. Insulin is not available to non-citizens. Government-operated emergency services are substandard. Ambulances generally transport to state hospitals unless specifically requested to a private hospital. Private emergency services in Skopje, operated by private institutions, meet higher quality standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in North Macedonia. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Adequate health facilities are available throughout North Macedonia but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Hospitals may require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. U.S. citizens have lodged complaints about unethical business practices, prices, and collection measures against some of the private institutions.  Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Be aware that some hotels, resorts, etc. have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals, only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to North Macedonia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in North Macedonia. Although North Macedonia has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely.  If you plan to undergo surgery in North Macedonia, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available , and professionals are accredited and qualified. Persons traveling to North Macedonia for medical purposes require the proper “medical” visa.  Check the Government of North Macedonia’s website for more information. Pharmaceuticals Always carry your prescription medicine in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Republic of North Macedonia Customs Administration to ensure the medication is legal in North Macedonia. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to North Macedonia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . If you decide to pursue parenthood in North Macedonia via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Surrogacy is legal in North Macedonia, but there are strict procedures that should be followed and individuals who attempt to circumvent local law may face criminal prosecution.  For additional information, consult the Ministry of Health’s website, available in the Macedonian language only. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in North Macedonia. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in North Macedonia. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst in the winter season. Air pollution levels in Skopje are between two and three times those of the most polluted areas in the United States. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors."
113,"Consult the CDC website for Madagascar prior to travel. Plague is endemic on the island, where outbreaks have resurfaced nearly every year since 1980. U.S. citizens visiting Madagascar are urged to monitor public health announcements from the Ministry of Public Health and the World Health Organization, and to follow public health guidelines and recommendations. Plague can be successfully treated with antibiotics, but it is crucial to seek medical treatment immediately, if you experience any plague signs or symptoms. See the List of Health Care Providers on the Embassy Antananarivo web page. You are responsible for all medical costs. U.S. Medicare does not cover you overseas. Medical Insurance: If your health insurance plan does not provide coverage overseas, we strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance and medical evacuation plans . Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Dengue Fever Chikungunya Diarrheal illness Rabies Tuberculosis Plague Polio Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
114,"For emergency services in Malawi, dial 998. Please note this number is not reliable and travelers should maintain back-up numbers, such as police and ambulance services, for the areas they visit. Ambulance services are not widely available. The training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. More information can be found here . Medical facilities are rudimentary. While all health workers have some degree of English proficiency, communication can be difficult. Diarrhea and other food borne illnesses are a common problem. You should avoid tap water, ice cubes, and raw fruits and vegetables. Bottled water is recommended for drinking and food preparation. Consume only food that is well-cooked and served hot. Many medications are not available. You should bring adequate quantities of medications to last the duration of your stay. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. We encourage you to check with your primary healthcare provider or local travel clinic regarding malaria prophylaxis medications. For major medical problems, you should consider obtaining medical treatment in South Africa, where advanced medical care is available. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Hospitals and doctors in Malawi do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas; most U.S. based medical plans do not. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis Cholera Hepatitis A Hepatitis B HIV Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Leptospirosis African Sleeping Sickness African Tick Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Leishmaniasis Hantavirus Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and travelers should sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV infection is endemic in the Malawian population. Travelers are advised to take appropriate precautions to limit the risk of transmission through blood or sexual contact. There are often shortages of medicine and medical supplies throughout Malawi. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Malawi. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors require advance payment prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals require advance payment before admitting a patient. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications while seeking medical care from non-traditional healers and practitioners in Malawi. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Water Quality Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be from tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
115,"For emergency services in Malaysia, dial 999 (landline) or 112 (cell/mobile).  Callers to 999 emergency number are directed to whichever government hospital the dispatcher chooses. Ambulance services are: Widely available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance (45+min). We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance.  Malaysian hospitals will not bill your insurance directly.  You must provide payment and seek reimbursement. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental MEDEVAC insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Royal Malaysian Customs Department to ensure the medication is legal in Malaysia. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst in the dry season from July to October due to large agricultural fires in the region.  People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Facilities and Services: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Private hospitals usually require advance payment before admitting a patient. Medical staff in rural areas may speak little English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care typically only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Malaysia. We strongly recommend supplemental MEDEVAC insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Malaysia. Although Malaysia has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely.  If you plan to undergo surgery in Malaysia, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls.  Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Malaysia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Although surrogacy agencies/clinics claim surrogacy is legal in Malaysia, there is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in Malaysia.  As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign or same-sex intending parents and gestational mothers are not enforced by Malaysia courts. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Malaysia via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship.  Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable.  Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Dengue Chikungunya Leptospirosis Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Malaysia."
116,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical Emergencies: There is no 911 equivalent for medical emergencies in Maldives; 119 is for the police only, and the Coast Guard responds to 191 calls for maritime emergencies. A patient would have to call an individual hospital for ambulance services. The quality of medical care in such instances may be uncertain, and most ambulances are ill equipped. Medical Facilities: Maldives has limited medical facilities. There are two hospitals in Malé: the government-owned Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH) and the privately owned Abduarahman Don Kaleyfan Hospital (ADK). ADK accepts some insurance plans, but IGMH does not. The hospitals perform limited general and orthopedic surgery, but Maldives has no trauma units and a small number of ICU beds. Persons needing treatments not offered in Maldives require evacuation to the nearest adequate medical facility, such as in Singapore. Five recompression chambers are available in Maldives. The largest and longest operating recompression chamber is on Bandos Island (15 minutes by speedboat from Malé). The others are located on Cinnamon Alidhoo Resort, Villingili Resort in Addu, Kuramathi Resort, and Kandholhudhoo Islands. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
117,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Mali. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical facilities are extremely limited, especially outside of Bamako. U.S.-standard care does not exist. Most U.S. medicines are unavailable; European medications are more easily found and can be obtained at pharmacies throughout Bamako. Do not purchase the potentially dangerous counterfeit or expired medications sold on the local market. Carry with you an adequate supply of needed medication and prescription drugs, along with copies of the prescriptions, including the generic names for the drugs. If traveling with prescription medication, always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow Fever Rabies Meningococcal meningitis Diarrheal diseases Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for travel in Mali. Malaria prophylaxis: Travelers should take prescription medicine before, during, and after your trip to prevent malaria. Your doctor can help you decide which medicine is right for you, and also talk to you about other steps you can take to prevent malaria. See the CDC website for more detailed information about malaria in Mali. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
118,"Medical care is available from private and government clinics and hospitals. The quality of medical care in Malta is at U.S. standards; however, customer service standards are lower, there are cultural differences with regard to communication, and there may be long waiting times for non-urgent medical care . Medical specialists are few. Private hospitals generally offer better customer service, shorter wait times, and more amenities. Mater Dei is Malta’s main government hospital. Though it offers full service, including a modern emergency room and trauma facilities, it can be crowded and difficult to navigate. The U.S. Government does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas . Most overseas care providers only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication , check with the Government of Malta and its Medicines Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Malta . Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
119,"For emergency services in the Marshall Islands dial 625-8666 or 625-2333 Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical evacuations from the Marshall Islands frequently exceed $100,000 and are subject to the availability of properly equipped aircraft. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health & Human Services at secchs.rmi@gmail.com to ensure the medication is legal in the Marshall Islands. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Proof of measles vaccination or signed documentation of contraindication by a doctor is a requirement for entry for travelers over the age six months and born after 1957. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. OPTIONAL stock language for Health section on special circumstances: Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics are only available in Majuro and Ebeye but frequently lack basic resources and supplies. There are generally no healthcare facilities in other areas. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in the Marshall Islands. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: Tap water in the Marshall Islands is not potable and it should not be used even to brush your teeth. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe. Majuro lagoon has tested positive for E. coli bacteria. Use extra caution to avoid ingesting water when swimming in the lagoon. General Health Language: The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Hansen’s Disease (Leprosy) Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Tuberculosis Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. There are shortages of medicine and medical supplies throughout the Marshall Islands. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Marshall Islands."
120,"Medical and dental facilities in Mauritania are extremely limited and do not approach Western standards. Local pharmacies are to be used with caution. Many medicines are difficult to obtain or may be counterfeit. Travelers are advised to carry their own medical supplies, medications, and prescription eyewear. There are no Western mortuary services available in Mauritania. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
121,"We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. All care providers expect payment in Mauritian Rupees. Consult the CDC website for Mauritius prior to travel. Medical attention is adequate at major hospitals and private clinics. Emergency ambulance service is available, but of variable quality and speed. Recommendations: Carry prescription medication in original packaging. Verify with the Embassy of the Republic of Mauritius that your medications are legal before traveling. Drugs such as tranquillizers, hypnotics, narcotics and strong pain killers require prior authorization. Check details with the Mauritius Ministry of Health Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The following diseases are prevalent: Hepatitis A Typhoid Please note that passengers may be quarantined during seasonal plague outbreaks IF travelling from plague-infected countries. HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS prevalence is increasing among the population, especially tied to intravenous drug use. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Yellow fever vaccination is required for entry if arriving from a country with risk of yellow fever. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) See the list of Health Care Providers on the Embassy Port Louis web page."
122,"Excellent health facilities are available in Mexico City and other major cities. Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi to a health provider. Mexican facilities often require payment “up front” before providing medical care, and most hospitals in Mexico do not accept U.S. health insurance. A list of doctors and hospitals is available on the U.S. Embassy or consulate website. U.S. citizens have lodged complaints against some private hospitals in Cancun, the Riviera Maya, and Los Cabos to include exorbitant prices and inflexible collection measures.  Travelers should obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care in these locations.  Be aware that some resorts have exclusive agreements with medical providers and ambulance services, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention.  Some hospitals in tourist centers utilize sliding scales, deciding on rates for services based on negotiation and on the patient’s perceived ability to pay.  In some instances, providers have been known to determine the limits of a patient’s credit card or insurance, quickly reach that amount in services rendered, and subsequently discharge the patient or transfer them to a public hospital. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism. For emergency services in Mexico, dial 911 .  Although there may be English-speaking operators available, it is best to seek the assistance of a Spanish speaker to place the call. Ambulance services are: widely available in major cities but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards, not present in many remote and rural areas of the country, not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills: Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation as well. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check the Mexican government’s Drug Schedule to ensure the medication is legal in Mexico. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Mexico. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Mexico.  Several foreigners have successfully enlisted the support of PROFECO (Spanish only) in order to resolve disputes over medical services. Although Mexico has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely.  If you plan to undergo surgery in Mexico, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls.  Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. The Drug Enforcement Agency reports counterfeit prescription pills are sold by criminals on both sides of the border. These pills are sometimes represented as OxyContin, Percocet, Xanax, and others, and may contain deadly doses of fentanyl. Counterfeit pills are readily advertised on social media and can be purchased at small, non-chain pharmacies in Mexico along the border and in tourist areas.  U.S. citizens have become seriously ill or died in Mexico after using synthetic drugs or adulterated prescription pills. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Visit the Mexican Health Department website (Spanish only) or contact the Embassy of Mexico in Washington, D.C., for more information about obtaining a permit to import medicine into Mexico. For a list of controlled substances in Mexico, visit the COFEPRIS website (Spanish only) and the Mexican Drug Schedule (Spanish only). U.S. citizens should carry a copy of their prescription or doctor’s letter, but it is still possible that they may be subject to arrest for arriving in Mexico with substances on these lists. Note that a medicine considered “over the counter” in some U.S. states may be a controlled substance in Mexico. For example, pseudoephedrine, the active ingredient in Sudafed, is considered a controlled substance in Mexico. For more information, contact the Embassy of Mexico in Washington, D.C. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Mexico to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is legal for foreigners in most of Mexico, in some states surrogacy is either not legal or is not governed by regulation. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Mexico via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Make sure you understand Mexican law, which can vary from state to state and is ambiguous in its treatment of non-Mexican or same-sex intending parents. Mexican courts, for example, may fail to enforce surrogacy agreements between non-Mexican or same-sex intending parents and gestational mothers. Gestational mothers are normally treated as the child’s legal parent with full parental rights in most states. The gestational mother’s name is typically listed on the Mexican state-issued birth certificate.  In Mexico City, the intended parents may be listed on the Mexican birth certificate if they can demonstrate a valid surrogacy agreement was in place regarding the child’s birth. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution.  Mexican authorities have made arrests stemming from surrogacy cases. Carbon Monoxide Many hotels and other lodgings are not equipped with carbon monoxide detectors, even if they contain sources of this potentially lethal gas. U.S. citizens have died as a result of carbon monoxide poisoning throughout Mexico. If your lodging is not equipped with a carbon monoxide detector, consider traveling with a portable one. Water Quality: In many areas in Mexico, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks might be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Mexico, such as Mexico City, are at high altitude, which can lead to altitude illness. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel Participation in adventure sports and activities may not be covered by accident insurance and safety protections and regulations for these activities may differ from U.S. standards.  Visit our website and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about adventure travel. General Health The following diseases are prevalent: COVID-19 Hepatitis Typhoid Fever Travelers’ Diarrhea Dengue Chikungunya Zika Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever Parasitic Infections Chronic Respiratory Disease Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Mexico. Air Quality Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Mexico. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Private Residential Treatment Facilities: These facilities provide care to U.S. citizens throughout Mexico and include child behavior modification facilities, rehabilitation facilities, and assisted living centers. There is a wide range in standards for education, safety, health, sanitation, immigration, and residency.  Staff licensing may not be strictly enforced or meet the standards of similar facilities in the United States. The State Department has received reports of abuse, negligence, or mismanagement at some of these facilities. U.S. citizens should exercise due diligence and do extensive research before selecting a residential treatment facility."
123,"Only basic medical care is available, and only on the main islands of the Federated States of Micronesia. Health care facilities in the FSM consist of state-run hospitals on each of the four major islands and a few scattered clinics. There is a lack of medical infrastructure for treating trauma cases, especially those involving extreme sports. Medical evacuation assistance is available only by air. Due to the remoteness of the islands, assistance can take days to arrive and is expensive. There are no daily commercial flights on Chuuk, Yap or Kosrae. Because flights often sell out, finding last-minute seats is difficult. For emergency services in the FSM, dial 911. Ambulance services are not widely available. Training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. In Pohnpei, Chuuk, Yap and Kosrae States, you can reach ambulance services by calling the State hospitals. Ambulances are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment, nor are they staffed with trained paramedics. Emergency responders often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Medication: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The government does not provide a list of medications that cannot be brought into the FSM, but travelers bringing medication should have a doctor’s note prescribing the medication. Please review the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Preventions website on purchasing medicine overseas. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Health facilities are available in the State Capitals of Pohnpei, Kosrae, Yap and Chuuk but the quality of care may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Private hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards and a patient’s relatives must provide bedding for the bed and operation room gurney. Mental health services are extremely limited with only one psychiatrist on Pohnpei. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in the FSM. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Scuba divers should note that decompression chambers in Yap, Chuuk, and Pohnpei are generally not working, and local staff may not have adequate experience in recognizing or treating diving injuries. General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue – The CDC issued a Dengue Outbreak Alert in Yap State. Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. The FSM experiences frequent shortages of imported food products, water, medicine, medical supplies, etc., due to container shipment delays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Micronesia."
124,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page here for more information on COVID-19 in Moldova. For emergency services in Moldova, dial 112. Ambulance services are: widely available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Moldovan Medicines and Medical Devices Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Moldova. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Chisinau and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors sometimes require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. In small cities and villages, medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Pharmacies are not always stocked to Western standards, and products may not be labeled in English. Poor quality and/or counterfeit medications have been reported. Tuberculosis is an increasingly serious health concern in Moldova."
125,"Medical care is comparable to that found in the United States. In an emergency, dial 15 to connect to emergency medical services. You can also dial the Europe-wide emergency response number 112 to reach an operator for all kinds of emergency services (similar to the U.S. 911 system). Non-French speakers may experience a delay while an English speaker is located. For non-emergency medical assistance in France, you may refer to this list of medical professionals . You can find good information on vaccinations and other health precautions on the Centers for Disease Control ( CDC) website . For information about outbreaks of infectious diseases abroad, consult the World Health Organization (WHO) website , which also contains additional health information for travelers, including detailed country-specific health information ."
126,"With few exceptions, Mongolian hospitals do not meet Western standards. Although most doctors and emergency responders are dedicated professionals, their training and equipment are sub-standard. Most modern medical facilities are in Ulaanbaatar, though some public and private hospitals in larger provincial cities offer medical services on par with those in the capital. Medical services may be completely unavailable in remote areas. Mongolia does not have helicopter medical evacuation and those who require medical assistance in remote areas must drive to the nearest major town. Medical evacuation to Ulaanbaatar is conducted by commercial air carriers. Some pharmacies in Ulaanbaatar carry European or U.S. pharmaceuticals, but quantity and variety is limited. Most pharmaceuticals are made in China or Russia, and lack English labels. See our list of medical facilities in Ulaanbaatar . Air Pollution: Due to the pervasiveness of coal-burning for domestic heating, Ulaanbaatar and most other Mongolian cities suffer severe air pollution during winter. The U.S. Embassy’s air quality monitor registers Air Quality Indices (AQIs) in excess of 300 most days from December through February. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency describes AQIs above 300 as “hazardous.” Air pollution can cause both short- and long-term health effects and poses an especially high risk to children, pregnant women, the elderly, outdoor enthusiasts, and people with heart or lung disease. Travelers planning to visit Ulaanbaatar during winter should consult a medical professional and should, at the very least, consider carrying an N95 mask to help filter out harmful particulates. For reliable and timely air pollution readings, check the U.S. Embassy’s live air quality monitor . Water Quality: The quality of drinking water varies throughout Mongolia and it is likely not up to U.S. standards for potability. Most Mongolians do not drink tap water and instead prefer to consume bottled water for their domestic use. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The U.S. Embassy does not provide medical evacuation, but will contact the insurance company on your behalf to arrange medical evacuation if necessary. If traveling with prescription medication, check the Government of Mongolia ’s Customs Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Mongolia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Rabies Plague Meningococcal meningitis Tuberculosis Measles Influenza Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
127,"For emergency services in Montenegro dial 123 for the fire department, and 124 for an ambulance. Dial 112 to report a crime or request police assistance. Ambulance services are not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment and are of limited availability. Emergency services are generally responsive in only the most severe cases. Otherwise, people must have their own transportation to hospitals and clinics. The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Many care providers overseas only accept cash payments, though some now accept credit cards. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended for travelers to Montenegro by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Detailed daily information on air quality is not available for Montenegro. Podgorica is estimated to have air pollution levels similar to those in major U.S. cities. Health Facilities The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Adequate health facilities are available in Podgorica and other cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Travelers may need to go to privately-owned pharmacies to obtain medicines and basic medical supplies. Hospitals and private clinics may require payment in cash for all services, although credit cards are now accepted. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Montenegro. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Montenegro. Pharmaceuticals If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Montenegro and its Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the medication is legal in Montenegro. Always carry your prescription medication in its original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : Surrogacy is illegal in Montenegro. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
128,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Montserrat to ensure the medication is legal in Montserrat. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Dengue Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
129,"Adequate medical care is available in Morocco’s largest cities, particularly in Rabat and Casablanca, although not all facilities meet Western standards. Emergency and specialized care outside the major cities is far below U.S. standards and may not be available at all. Most medical staff will have limited or no English-speaking ability. Most ordinary prescription and over-the-counter medicines are widely available. Specialized prescriptions may be difficult to fill and availability of all medicines in rural areas is unreliable. Travelers should not ask friends or relatives to send medications through the mail, FedEx, or UPS since Moroccan customs will impound the delivery and not release it to the recipient. Travelers planning to drive in the mountains and other remote areas may wish to carry a medical kit and a Moroccan phone card for emergencies. In the event of vehicle accidents involving injuries, immediate ambulance service is usually not available. The police emergency services telephone number is “190” (see Traffic Safety and Road Conditions section below). The U.S. Mission in Morocco is unable to pay your medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. You may also be required to pay a deposit before being admitted for treatment. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Morocco Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the medication is legal in Morocco. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
130,"Consult the CDC website for the Mozambique prior to travel. Medical facilities are rudimentary, and most medical providers do not speak fluent English. Medications are not always available.  Public and private medical facilities exist in the city of Maputo and most provincial capitals. All health care providers require payment at the time of or before providing service. Most do not accept credit cards. You are responsible for all medical costs. U.S. Medicare does not cover you overseas. Prescriptions Medications: Check with Ministry of Foreign Affairs to ensure the medication is legal to bring into the country.  Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
131,"Consult the CDC website for Namibia prior to travel. Medical facilities in the capital of Windhoek and in large towns are capable of providing emergency care and performing many routine procedures. Doctors and dentists are generally well-trained. Well-equipped facilities are rarely available in smaller towns. Carry prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Be sure to verify with the Namibian Ministry of Foreign Affairs that your medications are legal before you travel. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Leptospirosis Schistosomiasis African Tick Bite Fever Chikungunya Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Dengue Leishmaniasis Ross River Virus Disease Rift River Valley Hantavirus Tuberculosis Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: The United States works in partnership with the Government of Namibia to fight HIV/AIDS while promoting sustainable national ownership and leadership of HIV/AIDS programs. (Through PEPFAR, USAID and the Ministry of Health and Social Services). PEPFAR is the largest commitment by a single nation towards an international health initiative and in Namibia, PEPFAR has contributed over US$1.1 billion for HIV/AIDS activities since its inception in 2003. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Namibia. For emergency services in Namibia, dial Police; +264(63)10111. E-Med Rescue 24, dial 081 924 (from Cell), 061 411 600 (landline); AEMS Ambulance Services, dial 081 963 (from Cell), 061 300 118 (landline). Ambulance services are: not widely available, particularly outside of major cities, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Response times for ambulance services could be up to twenty minutes. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the Spring. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Adequate health facilities are available in city and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors usually require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available.  Some hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little English outside of Windhoek, especially in rural areas. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Namibia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Namibia. Persons traveling to Namibia for medical purposes require the proper “medical” visa. Check the Government of Namibia’s website for more information. Pharmaceuticals U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude Many cities in Namibia are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickenss, and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes ."
132,"For emergency services in Nauru, dial 110 for police, 111 for an ambulance or 112 for a fire. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. There are few health care facilities available in the Republic of Nauru. The Republic of Nauru Hospital provides basic medical care. On occasion, basic medications can be difficult to obtain. Those with serious illnesses or injuries typically require medical evacuation to Australia. Medical care for routine problems is available, but not up to the standards of industrialized countries. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals in Nauru . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health Language: The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Typhoid Food and Waterborne Diarrheal Diseases Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Nauru."
133,"General: Although availability of medical care has improved within the Kathmandu valley, outside the valley, it is limited and generally not up to Western standards. Medical facilities are often overwhelmed because of insufficient resources. Emergency medical services, especially in public hospitals, are of poor quality compared to that available in the United States. Routine medical issues and basic emergency surgeries can be performed by clinics and hospitals in Kathmandu. Serious illnesses, however, often require evacuation to the nearest adequate medical facility in a neighboring country. There is minimal mental health care available in Nepal. U.S. citizens with mental health problems are generally stabilized and transported to the United States or to another regional center for care. The U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu maintains a list of local medical facilities and practitioners . Intestinal tract diseases, including cholera, are present. Food hygiene and sanitary food handling practices are uncommon in Nepal, and precautions should be taken to prevent water and food-borne illnesses. Prudent travelers should avoid raw, green, leafy vegetables during the monsoon season. Malaria is present in the Terai region. For emergency services in Nepal, dial 100. Ambulance services are widely available in major cities, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards and is dependent on the quality of hospital from which the ambulance is dispatched. COVID-19 Testing: Local medical facilities, including outpatient labs, offer PCR COVID-19 tests on a cash basis, paid by the test recipient. Some facilities may offer in-home testing when arranged in advance. Average PCR test costs are $10-15, with expedited results offered for an additional fee. Most results are available within 48 hours. Expedited results may be available in as little as 6 hours. Results are typically sent via email and/or text message with a link to a .pdf file with scannable barcode. Local pharmacies generally stock rapid COVID-19 antigen tests, which typically cost $5-8. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Nepal on an as-available basis through local medical facilities. Those interested in receiving a COVID-19 vaccine should contact local medical facilities directly. Medical providers in Nepal have been trained in English and most reception staff will be able to communicate in English. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: Assisted Reproductive Technology services are widely available in Nepal and are generally safe . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Nepal, subject to complex local regulation. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Nepal via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Stray Animals: Stray animals are common on the streets of Kathmandu and at popular tourist sites. Visitors should be aware that stray animals may be infected with rabies. The CDC’s Preventing Dog Bites webpage recommends that if you are bitten by an animal, get to a safe place, immediately wash wounds with soap and water, and seek medical attention. The U.S. Embassy does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Obtain emergency medical evacuation insurance before visiting Nepal. Serious medical issues and injuries suffered while hiking in remote areas may require evacuation by helicopter to Kathmandu. Those trekking in remote areas of Nepal should factor the high cost of a potential helicopter rescue into their financial considerations. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, as medical evacuations can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Payment will be expected in cash before the medevac can take place, if there is no insurance coverage. Neither the U.S. Embassy nor the U.S. government pays private medical bills overseas. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . BEWARE OF MEDEVAC SCAMS : Medevac scams are common in Nepal, particularly for those traveling in the popular trekking regions of Solukhumbu (Everest region) and Annapurna (Pokhara region). Unscrupulous trekking companies and medical providers may pressure trekkers experiencing mild altitude sickness effects to take medevac helicopter flights back to Kathmandu and be transported by ambulance to a hospital, then charged inflated costs to bill insurance companies, with the excess fees split between involved parties. Trekkers themselves are often knowingly involved in these scams. Such activities are illegal in Nepal, but rarely prosecuted and often difficult to discern in advance. Trekkers should use only TAAN-registered trekking agencies and seek information on costs for medical treatment in advance. Travelers should, however, be aware of the life-threatening risks involved with altitude sickness and err on the side of caution when receiving treatment. Prescription Medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of Nepal to ensure that the medication is legal in Nepal. Local authorities irregularly enforce restrictions on certain drugs regularly prescribed by doctors in the United States or other foreign countries. To avoid problems, always carry prescription medication in the original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Stay up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information : World Health Organization WHO’s Nepal Profile U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) CDC’s Health Information for Travelers to Nepal"
134,"COVID-19 Testing: For information about COVID-19 testing in the Netherlands, visit the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport webpage . COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in the Netherlands if they are residents.  Visit the Dutch government’s COVID-19 page for more information about obtaining the COVID-19 vaccine in the Netherlands. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Good medical facilities are widely available in the Netherlands. Pharmacies (“Apotheek”) are widely available and can assist with emergency prescription needs. Some common medications are not available in the Netherlands without a prescription, and some prescription drugs cannot be imported into the country. For emergency services in the Netherlands, dial 112. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Carry an adequate supply of prescription drugs in their original container in your carry-on luggage. Carry a letter from your pharmacist or medical doctor with you, as some drugs are subject to confiscation by local customs agents.  Check with the government of the Netherlands to ensure the medication is legal in the Netherlands. If you are traveling with any pre-existing medical conditions, bring a letter from your physician that describes your medical condition and any prescription medications, including the generic name of any prescribed drugs. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
135,"Medical treatment on the main island is generally good but not up to standards of industrialized countries and it is more limited on the outer islands. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. Patients with more serious illnesses are often referred to Noumea, Australia, or France for treatment. Serious medical conditions requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the United States can cost thousands of dollars. Doctors and hospitals in New Caledonia often expect immediate cash payment for health services. The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of New Caledonia to ensure the medication is legal in New Caledonia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Travelers should consider being vaccinated for both typhoid and hepatitis A, which are transmitted through contaminated food and water. General Health Information: The following disease is prevalent: Zika Virus Dengue Chikungunya Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
136,"Travelers and crew do not need pre-departure tests or proof of COVID-19 vaccination to enter New Zealand. Please check with your airline or cruise provider as they may still require proof of vaccination. For emergency services in New Zealand, dial 111 . Ambulance services and quality medical care are widely available in New Zealand. Waiting lists exist for certain types of treatment. Access to medical care may be less available in rural areas. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. If they do not, consider emergency or comprehensive traveler’s insurance. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of New Zealand regulations at New Zealand MedSafe to ensure the medication is legal in New Zealand. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Consulate General maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to New Zealand to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Although surrogacy agencies/clinics claim surrogacy is legal in New Zealand, there is little legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in New Zealand. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign or same-sex intending parents and gestational mothers may not be enforced by New Zealand courts. You may be required to adopt the child before you are given parental rights. If you decide to pursue parenthood in New Zealand via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in New Zealand."
137,"COVID-19 Testing Information: PCR tests are available only through the Nicaraguan Ministry of Health. The government of Nicaragua prohibits the import of COVID-19 tests. The Embassy has received reports of tests being confiscated from U.S. citizen travelers upon arrival in Nicaragua. All testing in Nicaragua is carried out at the National Center for Diagnosis and Reference (CNDR) and the Nicaraguan Institute for Health Investigation (INIS) from 8:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Test results are returned the same day between 3:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. and can usually be downloaded after 4:00 pm. Travelers wishing to be tested must present an identification card (cedula) or passport and their flight itinerary.  The $150 fee must be deposited in either Banpro account 10010012253774 (U.S. dollars) or 10010002253784 (cordobas), both registered under TGR-MINSA.  Cash payments can be made at Conchita Palacios National Health Complex or at the INIS cashier. COVID-19 Vaccine Information: Sputnik V, AstraZeneca, Covishield, and Pfizer Vaccines are available in Nicaragua for U.S. citizens to receive. Visit the FDA’s website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Covid-19 Medical Evacuation: Click here for a list of private companies offering medical evacuation of COVID-19 patients from Nicaragua to the United States. U.S. citizens seeking information about medical evacuation of COVID-19 patients should contact these private companies directly. LOCAL RESOURCES: Health Ministry website The health ministry has created a 24/7 hotline to call regarding COVID-19 in Nicaragua. To reach the hotline, call +505-8418-9953. Managua Airport website with airline contact information."
138,"Health and emergency services are extremely limited in Niamey, and completely inadequate outside the capital.  Air quality is poor in Niamey.  Travelers with respiratory conditions are cautioned that they may experience worsening symptoms in Niger. Documentation of yellow fever vaccination is required for those over nine months of age upon arrival in Niger. Mosquito borne illnesses such as malaria are the leading cause of dealth in Niger. Documentation of yellow fever immunization is required for travelers prior to arrival in Niger. Zika virus is a risk in Niger.  Because Zika infection in a pregnant woman can cause birth defects;  pregnant women should not visit Niger.  All travelers should follow steps to prevent mosquito bites and sexual exposure to Zika during and after the trip. Diarrheal illness is quite prevalent, even in cities and luxury accommodations.  Tap water is not potable. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Niger to ensure the medication is legal in Niger .  Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevelant in Niger: Malaria Yellow Fever Meningococcal Meningitis Rabies Typhoid Dengue Fever Tuberculosis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
139,"The Government of Nigeria requires COVID-specific testing prior to arrival. Nigerian medical facilities are generally poorly equipped. Many medicines are unavailable, including medications for diabetes or asthma. Take care when purchasing medicines locally, as counterfeit pharmaceuticals are a common problem, and may be difficult to distinguish from genuine medications. Hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. Emergency services comparable to those in the United States or Europe are non-existent, and the blood supply is unreliable and unsafe for transfusion. For serious medical problems, you should consider traveling to the United States, Europe, or South Africa for treatment. For emergency services in Nigeria, dial 112. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Federal Ministry of Health in Nigeria to ensure the medication is legal in Nigeria. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information : World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General : Adequate health facilities are available in major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff are available overnight (in non-emergency wards). Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, and approaches to treatment and services might be significantly different than the United States. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery : Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry worldwide. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Nigeria. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Nigeria. Pharmaceuticals : Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescriptions in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine : U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners.  We recommend that you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : If you are considering traveling to Nigeria to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Although surrogacy agencies/clinics claim surrogacy is legal in Nigeria, there is no legal framework for foreigners to pursue surrogacy in Nigeria. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign intending parents and gestational mothers vary widely and are not enforced by Nigerian courts. Even though you may have a surrogacy contract, it is not clear if the contract will stand in court as a custody agreement. Therefore, parents should consider obtaining a custody order in Nigeria to be certain their parental rights are recognized. Surrogacy for same-sex couples is illegal in Nigeria. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Nigeria via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality : Tap water is unsafe.  Bottled water and beverages are generally safe.  Be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested, and  may use tap water to make ice for drinks. Adventure Travel : Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health : The following diseases are prevalent: Chickenpox Cholera Dengue Diarrheal illness Hepatitis A Hepatitis B HIV/AIDS Lassa Fever Loiasis Malaria Measles Meningococcal meningitis Mumps Pertussis Polio Rabies Rubella Schistosomiasis Tetanus Trypanosomiasis Tuberculosis Typhoid Yellow fever The U.S. Centers for Disease Control lists Nigeria as “critically high risk” for Malaria. Malaria is especially fatal in Nigeria and accounts for a high burden of disease and death in travelers. All travelers should take chemoprophylaxis, even for short stays, and even if they are African by descent. Avoid being outdoors during dusk and dawn and wear clothing over exposed skin whenever possible. Sleep with windows closed and under air conditioning. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Nigeria. Air Quality : Reliable air quality data for Nigeria is limited. However, satellite data suggests that on average it is significantly worse than in the United States. Poor waste management practices and commercial pollution exacerbate seasonal weather variations that affect air quality. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons.  It is typically at its worst from the end of November to mid-March, which is the harmattan season (a very dry season in West Africa when winds blow sand and dust from the Sahara Desert). People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors. Travelers with allergies and/or respiratory disease may experience illness and are encouraged to bring ample supply of prescription medications."
140,"If you have medical problems, do not travel to North Korea: Medical facilities in the DPRK lack resources and electricity. Medical personnel have inadequate or outdated skills. Hospitals in Pyongyang can perform basic examinations and lifesaving measures, but functioning x-ray facilities are not generally available. Avoid surgery. If you have an accident outside Pyongyang, transport back to the capital can be lengthy and without medical assistance. Hospitals will expect immediate U.S. dollar cash payment for medical treatment . You cannot use credit cards or checks in the DPRK. Carry your regular medication with you along with the doctor’s prescription: DPRK Customs says that most prescription medication may be brought into the country with no restrictions. Medical Evacuations: Local DPRK hosts are often not aware of options available for medical evacuations and might claim that no such options exist. Insist on contacting the Embassy of Sweden, which will attempt to arrange flight clearances for air ambulances performing emergency medical evacuations. Costs for medical air evacuation vary, but according to SOS International, an evacuation from Pyongyang to Beijing averages approximately USD 40,000 including medical personnel (1 doctor and 1 nurse), the aircraft, and clearance costs. The General Bureau of the Koryo Civil Aviation of the DPRK says that it provides around-the-clock service and that requests for air clearance will be granted within 24 hours. If a U.S. citizen with a medical emergency is in Pyongyang, the Embassy of Sweden can usually arrange a medical evacuation to Beijing in one day.  If the patient is located outside Pyongyang, it will take longer. Medical evacuation by regularly scheduled airlines can be arranged, but very few flights operate from Pyongyang to Beijing (Air Koryo and Air China), Shenyang (Air Koryo), or Vladivostok (Air Koryo). Air Koryo flights go to Shanghai only on a charter basis in the tourist season (April-October). In order to transit China, Chinese visas for injured foreigners and any escorts must be obtained prior to the evacuation from North Korea. Even in the case of a medical emergency, transit visas may take several days to arrange. Evacuation across the DMZ to South Korea is not allowed. Vaccinations: Information on vaccinations and other health precautions, such as safe food and water precautions and insect bite protection are located at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s hotline for international travelers at 1-877-FYI-TRIP (1-877-394-8747) or via the CDC Internet site. For information about outbreaks of infectious diseases abroad, consult the World Health Organization's (WHO) website . If you have special dietary requirements, you are advised to bring food with you to North Korea, as the restaurants available to foreigners have limited menus that may not meet your dietary needs. Companies that may be able to arrange evacuation services include, but are not limited to, those listed below. You may wish to contact these or other emergency medical assistance providers for information about their ability to provide medical evacuation insurance and/or assistance for travelers to North Korea. International SOS Telephone (inside China):  400-818-0767 Telephone (outside China): (86-10) 6462-9100 United Healthcare Global Assistance Telephone:  (U.S.) (410) 453-6330 Telephone:  (Toll free within China) 10-8888-800-527-0218 Telephone:  (outside China) (86-10) 6595-8510) Global Doctor Telephone (emergency):  (China) (86-10) 5915-1199. Telephone:  400-025-8199 You can find useful information on medical emergencies abroad, including overseas insurance programs, on the Department of State's Bureau of Consular Affairs website. Also, see our extensive tips and advice on Traveling Safely Abroad . Bills - We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas: The DPRK says U.S. citizens are accountable for costs associated with detention or incarceration in North Korea such as lodging, food, telephone calls, and medical assistance (hospital bills). Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Major country-specific health concerns: Tuberculosis is an increasingly serious health concern in North Korea. For further information, please consult the CDC's information on TB. Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
141,"There are several options for obtaining COVID-19 tests at local clinics, at your own expense (from $70-$200 per person, depending on test type and wait time). https://oslohelse.no/covid-19-test-services/ https://drdropin.no/en/coronatest/testclinic/oslo https://www.volvat.no/lokasjoner/oslo/tjenester/corona-test/ https://www.kry.no/en/covid-offering/ Results are provided via email or may be picked up at some clinics as soon as two hours after testing. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Norway. Vaccinations are provided by the municipalities in Norway. In Oslo, vaccinations are available at the Nydalen vaccination centre . Visit the Nydalen vaccination centre website for contact details and hours. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Medical facilities are widely available and of high quality but may be limited outside larger urban areas. The remote and sparse populations in northern Norway and the dependence on ferries to cross fjords of western Norway may affect transportation and ready access to medical facilities. The U.S. Embassy in Oslo maintains a list of emergency medical and dental clinics in major cities. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Norway to ensure the medication is legal in Norway.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Ambulance services are widely available. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Medical staff may speak limited English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Norway. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Norway. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often more difficult to obtain in Norway. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Norway does not allow the importation of some medications that are legal in the United States by prescription.   Please review Norway’s rules on medications: Bringing medicines into Norway by travel - Legemiddelverket . Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy Surrogacy is illegal in Norway. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The tourism industry is generally regulated, and rules are regularly enforced. Hazardous areas/activities are usually identified with appropriate signage and professional staff is typically on hand in support of organized activities. In the event of an injury, appropriate medical treatment is widely available throughout the country.  Outside of a major metropolitan center, it may take more time for first responders and medical professionals to stabilize a patient and provide life-saving assistance. At certain times of year, there are increased risks of avalanche and hidden crevasses in mountainous areas throughout Norway.  Rapid weather changes may also create hazards in backcountry areas.  We encourage you to check with local authorities and websites showing current conditions before engaging in outdoor sporting activities. If you plan to travel to Svalbard, please see more information above.  U.S. citizens are encouraged to purchase medical evacuation insurance.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage ."
142,"COVID-19 Testing: For general PCR testing and exiting Oman, various health clinics in Oman offer PCR tests with results within 72 hours as well as 24-hour and 3–6-hour options.  PCR tests are at the expense of the individual/traveler.  Prices vary by clinic and range from 20 – 40 OMR; surcharges often apply for expedited result processing within 24 hours or less.  Drive up testing, walk-in tests, and tests by appointment are all available in Oman.  Test result delivery varies by clinic: e-mail, text, and physical message are commonly used to communicate results. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Oman. Please refer to the Omani Ministry of Health for additional information on vaccination registration. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. For emergency services in Oman, dial 9999.  Emergency hotlines are mostly Arabic-speaking.  The U.S. Embassy has received reports from U.S. citizens who were unable to receive assistance due to language barriers. Response times for ambulance services vary.  Injured or seriously ill travelers should take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Modern medical facilities and Western-style pharmacies are available. Local medical treatment varies from average to inadequate, depending on location. Hospital emergency treatment is available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Government of Oman to ensure the medication is legal in Oman. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
143,"The Government of Pakistan requires travelers age 12 and over be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Basic medical care is available in major Pakistani cities but is limited in rural areas. Facilities in cities vary in quality and range of services and may be below U.S. standards; facilities in rural areas are consistently below U.S. standards. Medical facilities require pre-payment for services, and most do not accept credit cards. Effective emergency response to personal injury and illness is virtually non-existent in most of Pakistan. Ambulances are few, lack medical equipment, and are not necessarily staffed by medical personnel. Visitors and foreign residents should bring sufficient supplies of prescription and commonly used over-the-counter medications. Many U.S.-brand medications are not available, there is a high incidence of fake pharmaceuticals, and the quality of locally produced medications is uneven. A CDC Level 1 Travel Health Notice regarding extensively drug-resistant (XDR) typhoid in Pakistan has been in place since 2018. Review the Travel Health Notice . A CDC Level 1 Travel Health Notice regarding global increase in the number of cases of measles including in Pakistan. Review the Travel Health Notice . There is a risk of transmission of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and other communicable diseases, such as hepatitis and HIV, in Pakistan. Travelers are urged to use the same cautionary and protective health measures they would in their own country. For emergency services in Pakistan, dial 15. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover possible medical evacuation. If you plan to engage in high-risk outdoor activities in Pakistan, it is essential that you engage the services of a travel risk and crisis management provider. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Government of Pakistan to ensure the medication is legal in Pakistan. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant environmental problem across Pakistan. Throughout the country, air quality varies considerably by city and fluctuates greatly depending on the season and local weather patterns. We encourage you to consult with your doctor prior to travel and consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you. It is typically at its worst during the winter in Pakistan. Anyone who travels to areas where pollution levels are high is at risk. People at the greatest risk from pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens; People over 65 years of age; People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease; and People who work or are active outdoors. Air quality data for major cities in Pakistan can be found on the U.S. Embassy’s website . Water Quality Throughout Pakistan, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Sanitation in most restaurants is inadequate. Diarrheal illnesses are common. Travelers to Pakistan are at risk for other infectious diseases as well. More information about these illnesses and how to protect against them can be found on the CDC webpage for Pakistan Adventure Travel: Pakistan’s mountains and glaciers make it a tempting destination for adventure enthusiasts. Despite the best efforts of local authorities, assisting visitors lost or injured in such remote areas can be difficult. In recent years, several U.S. citizens, including expert climbers, have lost their lives while climbing in the Karakoram mountain range, where rescue missions are often difficult or impossible to execute. Costs for emergency rescues start at $15,000, and payment is required prior to commencement of a search operation. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Pakistan."
144,"Health For emergency services in Palau, dial 911. COVID-19 Testing: U.S. citizens can obtain a COVID-19 test in Palau. Review Palau’s Ministry of Health & Human Services for information. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Palau. Review Palau’s Ministry of Health & Human Services for information. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may not exist or be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Koror. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals Medical Assistance . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Health facilities in Palau are adequate for routine medical care, but the availability and quality of services are limited. Serious medical conditions requiring hospitalizations or evacuation to the United States or elsewhere may cost tens of thousands of dollars. The Belau National Hospital accepts payments in cash or debit/credit card. Private clinics also accept cash and debit/credit cards payments. There are only three private clinics in Palau. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel The only hyperbaric chamber is located at the Belau National Hospital in Meyuns, Koror. Many popular dive sites are far away from Koror. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Palau."
145,"Panama City is known to have some good hospitals and clinics, but medical facilities outside of the capital are limited. Hospitals in Panama are either private hospitals or government-run public hospitals. Private hospitals typically require payment of the anticipated costs of hospitalization prior to providing services and require payment of any additional costs upon release from the hospital. These costs can be in excess of USD$10,000-$20,000, depending on the nature of the treatment. In Panama, most hospitals accept credit cards for hospital charges, but not for doctors' fees and do not accept international wire transfers or credit card payments over the phone. Except for antibiotics and narcotics, most medications are available without a prescription. The 911-call center provides ambulance service in Panama City, Colon, and the Pan-American Highway between Panama City and Chiriqui. However, an ambulance may not always be available and given difficulties with traffic and poor road conditions, there may be a significant delay in response. There are private ambulance services available on a subscription basis. The U.S. Embassy does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Zika virus Dengue Chikungunya Malaria Travelers’ Diarrhea Tuberculosis Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
146,"For emergency services in Papua New Guinea, dial 111 to reach St. John Ambulance Service. Ambulance services are: Not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except for Port Moresby and other major urban areas. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Not always staffed with trained paramedics and/ or may have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, as severe injuries often require medical evacuation to Australia, Singapore, the Philippines, or the United States at a cost of thousands of dollars. Medical evacuations to Australia require a visa or Electronic Travel Authority . Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Embassy of Papua New Guinea to ensure the medication is legal in Papua New Guinea. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Health facilities are available in Port Moresby and other major urban areas, but health care may be below U.S. standards or vary greatly between locations. Public medical clinics often lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission, and credit card payment is not always available. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Generally, in public hospitals, only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are extremely limited, even in Port Moresby and other urban areas. Hospital-based care is only available through one government institution in Port Moresby. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Persons arriving in Papua New Guinea are advised to travel with copies of any prescriptions for medication. Common prescription and over-the-counter medications are generally available at pharmacies located in major urban areas. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Chikungunya Cholera Dengue HIV Japanese Encephalitis Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Polio Rickettsioses Sexually Transmitted Diseases Traveler’s Diarrhea Tuberculosis Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Please see the CDC website regarding HIV Basics . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Papua New Guinea."
147,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Paraguay to ensure the medication is legal in Paraguay. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor-issued written prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Diarrheal illness Mosquito-borne illnesses including: Zika Dengue Fever Chikungunya Rabies Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
148,"COVID-19 Testing: PCR and/or antigen tests are available for U.S. citizens in Peru, and test results are reliably available within one calendar day. Peru is able to test for COVID-19 in country. Private hospitals and laboratories as well as the Peruvian Ministry of Health (MINSA) are administering tests. U.S. citizens are responsible for their own COVID-19 testing costs. The following labs offer COVID-19 testing services in Peru (please note that the Department of State assumes no responsibility or liability for the professional ability or reputation of, or the quality of services provided by, the entities or individuals whose names appear on the following list). Inclusion on this list is in no way an endorsement by the Department or the U.S. government. Names are listed alphabetically, and the order in which they appear has no significance. The information on the list is provided directly by local service providers; the Department is not able to vouch for such information: 1. ROE LAB – Telephone: 513-6666 Appointments need to be coordinated through their webpage . 2. SUIZA LAB – Telephone: 612-6666 This company also conducts home visits for an extra fee (40–50 soles) 3. UNILABS – Telephone: 222-0550 Appointments need to be coordinated through their webpage . COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Peru. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Sinopharm vaccines are available in Peru. For more information about the Peruvian Ministry of Health’s (MINSA) national vaccine strategy, see (in Spanish) MINSA's website . Medical Care : Specialized medical care can cost tens of thousands of dollars, and you are expected to pay in full at the time of discharge. Pharmacies are widely available. However, some medications might not be offered, and brand names will differ from products in the United States. Exercise caution if you explore herbal and folk remedies. For emergency services in Peru, dial 113 . Ambulance services are not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Lima and other major cities. Training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Government of Peru to ensure the medication is legal in Peru. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health Facilities in General: Adequate health facilities are available in Lima and other major cities, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is usually available. Some hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private and public hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals if they do not have insurance. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery : U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Peru. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Peru. Although Peru has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Peru, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Please review Peru's rules on medication . Non-Traditional Medicine: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Peru. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy : If you are considering traveling to Peru to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Peru, subject to complex local regulation. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Peru via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Peru, such as Puno, Cusco, Arequipa, Ayacucho, and Huaraz, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness, and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes . Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health : The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Travelers’ Diarrhea Guillain-Barré Syndrome Hepatitis A and B Leishmaniasis Malaria Rabies Tuberculosis Yellow fever Zika Typhoid Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: For more information visit MINSA’s website (in Spanish): https://www.dge.gob.pe/vih/ . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Peru. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Peru. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons but is typically poor year-round. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teen. People over 65 years of age. People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes. People who work or are active outdoors."
149,"For emergency services in the Philippines, dial 911. Ambulance services are not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not all ambulances are equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance.  For more information about TRICARE medical services overseas (a health care program for uniformed service members, retirees, and their families), including possible vaccinations, please visit their Tricare-overseas website . Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Philippine Bureau of Customs to ensure the medication is legal in the Philippines. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals in the Philippines. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. U.S. citizens have lodged a large number of complaints about unethical business practices, prices, and collection measures against some of the  hospitals in the Philippines. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Be aware that some hotels or resorts may have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on medical tourism. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in the Philippines. Although the Philippines has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in the Philippines, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with few controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Measles Zika Malaria Polo Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in the Philippines. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in the Philippines. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary."
150,"COVID-19 Testing: COVID PCR and antigen tests are available for U.S. citizens in Poland and results are available within 24 hours. Adequate medical care is available, but the quality of hospitals and nursing support may not be comparable to U.S. standards in all regions of Poland . Emergency services may be lacking in small towns and rural areas. Physicians are generally well-trained, and many younger doctors speak English (nurses and staff may not).  While medication and treatment are generally substantially less costly than in the United States, doctors and hospitals often expect cash payment prior to treatment . Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Medication, while generally available, may not be U.S. brand-name drugs. For emergency services in Poland, dial 112 .  Ambulance services are widely available. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. The Embassy does not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health Poland to ensure the medication is legal in Poland. Vaccinations: The CDC does not recommend and there is no requirement for specific vaccinations for U.S. citizen travelers. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery : Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry.  U.S. citizens traveling to Poland for medical tourism or elective surgery should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals : U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for use in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: Food and water standards in Poland are similar to those in the United States. Most travelers do not need to take special food or water precautions beyond what they normally do at home. For more information please visit CDC Traveler’s Health. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Air Quality: Cities in Poland have higher air pollution levels than major U.S. cities. Especially in Krakow, levels are often above U.S. health-based standards in the winter. Air quality is often good to moderate during warmer months. Visit the European Environment Agency’s website for information on air quality in Poland."
151,"For emergency services in Portugal, dial 112.  Ambulance services are widely available, but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Good medical care is available, but facilities may be limited outside urban areas. Public hospitals offer services at costs lower than private hospitals. Payment is expected upon admission at private hospitals. Call the national emergency response for an ambulance at 112 for life-threatening emergencies. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Portugal to ensure the medication is legal in Portugal. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Portuguese law prohibits the mailing of prescription medicines from the United States to Portugal. Any prescription medications mailed to Portugal will be impounded by the Portuguese customs office. You should bring a sufficient supply of medication with you to cover your anticipated stay in Portugal, along with a copy of your physician's prescription. Portuguese pharmacies generally carry equivalent medications to those found in the United States; however, they may be sold under a different brand name, may not be available in the same dosage, or may require a prescription from a local doctor. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals for Medical Assistance . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
152,"COVID-19 Testing: COVID-19 tests are available from many local medical providers and hospitals. Testing is paid for by the individual or, in some instances, their insurance plan or employer. Private hospitals charge QR 50 - 160 test. Test results are usually provided by email, but some clinics require you to pick up the travel certificate in person. Please refer to the Ministry of Public Health’s webpage for additional information. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Qatar. Please refer to the Ministry of Public Health’s webpage for additional information. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Modern medical facilities and Western-style pharmacies are available. Doctors and hospitals expect immediate cash payment for health services. For information on the Qatari national healthcare system, see the Qatar Ministry of Health website . For emergency services in Qatar, dial 999. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Some prescription medications from the United States are unavailable or restricted in Qatar, for example, stimulants, strong pain medications, and some medications used by HIV+ patients. Check with the Qatari customs authority on proper travel procedures and the Ministry of Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in Qatar. Discuss a health care plan with your doctor before you travel. Contraceptives, Pregnancy, and Prenatal Care: Sexual intercourse outside of marriage is illegal in Qatar.  As such, pregnant women must present a marriage certificate to receive prenatal care at medical facilities in Qatar.  Unmarried pregnant women should consult the U.S. Embassy prior to pursuing prenatal care in Qatar. Contraceptives are available over the counter with no prescription required. Emergency contraceptives are not available. We advise all travelers to plan accordingly. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air quality is poor in Qatar, with frequent dust and particle pollution. Members of sensitive groups may experience more serious health effects. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
153,"For emergency services in Republic of the Congo, dial 117. Ambulance services and emergency services are: Available, but response times are unpredictable. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The U.S. Embassy does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health and Population to ensure the medication is legal in Republic of the Congo. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Republic of the Congo. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the rainy season. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: o   Infants, children, and teens o   People over 65 years of age o   People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; o   People with heart disease or diabetes o   People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals here . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are not available throughout the country. Health care in rural areas is extremely poor and well below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: COVID-19 Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Malaria Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Other diseases that may be present: Leptospirosis Schistosomiasis African Sleeping Sickness (African Trypanosomiasis) African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Ebola Mpox Hantavirus Tuberculosis (TB) Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: HIV treatment is available at the Central Hospital in Brazzaville. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Republic of the Congo."
154,"Medical care in Romania is generally not up to Western standards, and basic medical supplies are limited, especially outside major cities. Some medical providers that meet Western quality standards are available in Bucharest and other cities but can be difficult to identify and locate. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available.  Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Travelers seeking medical treatment should therefore choose their provider carefully. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited outside of the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Most prescription drugs and over-the-counter medications are available in Romania but are often sold under different names. A list of approved medicines available in Romania can be found on the website of the Romanian National Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices . Ambulance services are not present throughout the country and are unreliable in some areas except in or around major cities. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Romanian National Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices to ensure the medication is legal in Romania. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Romania.  Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
155,"Private medical care in major metropolitan cities and tourism centers in Russia is often equal to Western standards. However, medical care is generally below Western standards in non-metropolitan areas. Private medical facilities require payment by cash or credit card before providing services (unless they are life threatening), and are unlikely to accept proof of U.S. insurance as guarantee of future payment. Payment is expected at the time of service . The Embassy does not pay the medical bills of private U.S. citizens. U.S. Medicare does not provide coverage outside the United States without the purchase of supplemental coverage. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Elderly travelers and those with existing health problems are particularly at risk. Prescription Medication: Certain classes of over-the-counter cold medicines, such as those containing pseudoephedrine, are illegal in Russia. We recommend against bringing cold medication with you to Russia. Carry a copy of valid U.S. prescriptions, including a notarized translation into Russian of each prescription, when entering Russia with prescription medications. Prescription medication should be in its original packaging. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
156,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Rwanda. For emergency services in Rwanda, dial 112 for police, 113 for traffic accidents, or 116 to report abuse by a police officer. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Healthcare providers require payment in U.S. dollars/Rwandan francs before services are performed. Medical Insurance :  Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Rwanda Food and Drugs Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Rwanda. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, be the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the CDC. While the CDC does not generally recommend the yellow fever vaccination for travel to Rwanda, the U.S. Embassy recommends travelers bring proof of yellow fever vaccination. The Rwandan government retains the right to turn travelers without the immunization away, especially if the traveler has visited any of the countries on this list . The following diseases are prevalent in Rwanda : African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Hantavirus Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Rabies Tuberculosis (TB) Typhoid Schistosomiasis Yellow Fever Use CDC-recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Schistosomiasis, a parasitic infection that can be spread in fresh water, is found in Rwanda. The CDC recommends travelers avoid swimming in fresh, unchlorinated water, such as lakes, ponds, or rivers. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Health Facilities in General: Adequate health facilities are available in Kigali and other major cities but health care, especially in rural areas, may be below U.S. standards. Some public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. While English is widely spoken in Rwanda, in certain areas in the country medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, be the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Please review Rwandan rules on medication on the Rwanda Food and Drugs Authority website. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Food Locally available fruit and vegetables may be contaminated with disease-causing organisms. In addition, these items may also have been treated with pesticides. It is important that all fruits and vegetables be adequately cleaned and prepared before consumption."
157,"The U.S. government does not pay medical bills for overseas travelers. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. We strongly recommend travelers obtain supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical facilities in Saint Kitts and Nevis do not meet U.S. standards, and medical transport can take hours to respond. St. Kitts has two hyperbaric chambers. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saint Kitts and Nevis to ensure the medication is legal in Saint Kitts and Nevis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Saint Kitts and Nevis has reported past or current transmission of the following diseases: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
158,"Medical facilities in Saint Lucia do not meet U.S. standards. Doctors and hospitals often expect immediate cash payment for health services. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. . Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of St. Lucia to ensure the medication is legal in St. Lucia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
159,"Medical facilities in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines do not meet U.S. standards. There is no hyperbaric chamber, and divers requiring treatment for decompression illness must be evacuated from the island. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare and Medicaid programs do not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuations. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines to ensure the medication is legal in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Chikungunya Dengue Zika Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
160,"For emergency services in Samoa, dial 911 . Ambulance services are 911 . Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Samoa Ministry of Customs and Revenue to ensure the medication is legal in Samoa. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In late 2019, Samoa suffered a measles epidemic. Travelers are advised to review their immunity status prior to arrival. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Adequate health facilities are available in Apia but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. U.S. citizens have lodged a large number of complaints about unethical business practices. Generally, hospital staffing is minimal overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Samoa. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Samoa. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya Zika Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Only minimal treatment is available in Samoa. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Samoa."
161,"Medical facilities are available, but may be limited outside urban areas. Public hospitals, though generally free of charge for emergency services, sometimes do not maintain the same standards as hospitals in the United States, so you are encouraged to obtain insurance that would cover a stay in a private Italian hospital or clinic. It is almost impossible to obtain an itemized hospital bill from public hospitals, as required by many U.S. insurance companies, because the Italian National Health Service charges one inclusive rate for care services and room and board. In parts of southern Italy, the lack of adequate trash disposal and incineration sites has led to periodic accumulations of garbage in urban and rural areas. In some cases, residents have burned garbage, resulting in toxic emissions that can aggravate respiratory problems. The U.S. Navy initiated a public health evaluation in the Naples area in 2008. After finding levels of bacterial and chemical contamination of potential health concern, particularly in samples of area well water, the Navy recommended all personnel living off-base in the Naples area use only bottled water for drinking, cooking, ice-making, and brushing teeth. For more information on safe food and water precautions, see the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website . You can find good information on vaccinations and other health precautions on the CDC website . For information about outbreaks of infectious diseases abroad, consult the World Health Organization (WHO) website , which also contains additional health information for travelers, including detailed country-specific health information ."
162,"Medical facilities in Sao Tome and Principe are extremely limited. You will need to travel abroad for all but minor medical needs. The only hospital in the country is on Sao Tome, Hospital Central Ayres de Menezes. They have general surgery, general medicine, and an intensive care unit. Access to medicines, including antibiotics, can be limited. Facilities are antiquated and newer equipment is needed. A few clinics provide very basic services. Payment in cash is almost always expected before treatment is rendered. The availability of medicine in local stores or pharmacies is very limited. You should carry prescription medication in its original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most medical care providers in Sao Tome and Principe only accept cash payments and expect payment in advance. Even if your health insurance does provide overseas coverage, you will have to pay your medical charges at the time of service and later seek reimbursement from your insurance company. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow fever Travelers’ Diarrhea Rabies Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis Dengue Hepatitis C Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
163,"COVID-19 Testing: COVID-19 testing is available to U.S. citizens throughout Saudi Arabia at public and private facilities. Private hospitals and clinics charge a fee for COVID-19 testing.  Cost, delivery method, and timing of results varies. Some facilities can electronically deliver results within 24 hours or less. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Saudi Arabia. For more information, please see the Ministry of Health’s website. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Medical care varies greatly in quality, and high-profile cases of medical malpractice and errors have occurred. Consult your regular physician if you are considering serious medical treatment in Saudi Arabia. The U.S. Embassy and U.S. Consulates General do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers in Saudi Arabia accept cash or credit card payments.  See the Department’s webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation is strongly recommended. If you are covered by Saudi insurance, be sure to read the fine print: local insurance can have exclusions that are unusual in the United States. For example, some local policies may not supply coverage for accidents that occur while engaging in adventure sports, such as riding quad vehicles in the desert, that are a common past-time for expatriates. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saudi Arabia to ensure the medication is legal in Saudi Arabia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Please note: Saudi Arabia has a dry climate with extreme heat several months of the year – travelers should stay hydrated. Air pollution is a significant concern in many parts of Saudi Arabia including Riyadh, Al Jubail, Jeddah, and Dammam. Many infectious diseases, such as measles, typhoid, dengue, and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), are present in Saudi Arabia. Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Saudi Ministry of Health HEALTH Medical care varies greatly in quality, and high profile cases of medical malpractice and errors have occurred. Consult your regular physician if you are considering serious medical treatment in Saudi Arabia. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If you are covered by Saudi insurance, be sure to read the fine print: local insurance can have exclusions that are unusual in the United States. For example, some local policies may not supply coverage for accidents that occur while engaging in adventure sports, such as riding quad vehicles in the desert, that are a common past-time for expats. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saudi Arabia to ensure the medication is legal in Saudi Arabia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. For health-related information on the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), formerly called “novel coronavirus,” visit the CDC’s MERS-CoV webpage . Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) HEALTH Medical care varies greatly in quality, and high profile cases of medical malpractice and errors have occurred. Consult your regular physician if you are considering serious medical treatment in Saudi Arabia. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If you are covered by Saudi insurance, be sure to read the fine print: local insurance can have exclusions that are unusual in the United States. For example, some local policies may not supply coverage for accidents that occur while engaging in adventure sports, such as riding quad vehicles in the desert, that are a common past-time for expats. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saudi Arabia to ensure the medication is legal in Saudi Arabia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. For health-related information on the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), formerly called “novel coronavirus,” visit the CDC’s MERS-CoV webpage . Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) HEALTH Medical care varies greatly in quality, and high profile cases of medical malpractice and errors have occurred. Consult your regular physician if you are considering serious medical treatment in Saudi Arabia. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If you are covered by Saudi insurance, be sure to read the fine print: local insurance can have exclusions that are unusual in the United States. For example, some local policies may not supply coverage for accidents that occur while engaging in adventure sports, such as riding quad vehicles in the desert, that are a common past-time for expats. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Saudi Arabia to ensure the medication is legal in Saudi Arabia. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. For health-related information on the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), formerly called “novel coronavirus,” visit the CDC’s MERS-CoV webpage . Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
164,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Senegal. Several hospitals and clinics in Dakar can treat major and minor injuries and illnesses; however, medical facilities outside Dakar are extremely limited and unprepared to handle major injuries. There is inadequate inpatient psychiatric care and limited office-based psychiatric treatment in Dakar. For emergency services in Senegal, dial 800-881-881 (Toll Free/Numero Vert) for SAMU. Ambulance services are either unavailable or unreliable in most areas except Dakar, where ambulance services exist but can often arrive with great delay (up to 30-45 minutes). In the event an ambulance is not immediately available (the services will often provide an estimated time of arrival), injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry prescription medication in its original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Malaria Typhoid Tuberculosis Yellow Fever Zika Meningococcal Meningitis Rabies Measles Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Wash raw vegetables and fruits in a bleach solution before eating. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Senegal. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst during the Harmattan winds in January and February, which frequently carry dust and sand particles from the Sahara and result in poor air quality throughout the country. People at greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
165,"Medical Facilities: Many doctors and other health care providers in Serbia are highly trained. Equipment and hygiene in hospitals, clinics, and ambulances are usually not up to U.S. standards. U.S. name-brand medicines are often unavailable in Serbia. You can get many medicines and basic medical supplies at private pharmacies. Medical facilities require payment in cash for all services, and do not accept U.S. health insurance. Please review our travel tips for older travelers . For emergency services in Serbia, dial 193 (fire-fighters), 194 (paramedics), or 987 (roadside assistance). Ambulance services are not widely available, and training, availability of emergency responders, and ambulance equipment may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medications: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Medicines and Medical Devices Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Serbia. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Some private hospitals may require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry, especially in dentistry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Serbia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. In case of malpractice, you may pursue legal remedies using local attorneys. Pharmaceuticals U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Serbia. Homeopathy, herbal remedies, and other non-traditional treatments are practiced in Serbia and promoted as natural alternatives to traditional medicine. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Serbia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners and Serbians in Serbia. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel."
166,"We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. All care providers expect payment in Seychellois Rupees. Consult the CDC website for the Seychelles prior to travel. Medical facilities are limited, especially on isolated islands. The main hospital, including accident and emergency services, is in Victoria (telephone: + 248 -4388-000). Recommendations: Carry prescription medication in original packaging. Verify with Seychelles Customs that your medications are legal before you travel. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. The following diseases are prevalent: Chikungunya Dengue Fever Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Rabies Typhoid Please note that passengers may be quarantined during seasonal plague outbreaks IF you are travelling from plague-infected countries. HIV/AIDS: HIV/AIDS prevalence is increasing among the population, especially tied to intravenous drug use. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention . Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
167,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information about COVID-19 in Sierra Leone. Medical facilities and services in Sierra Leone are severely limited. The standard of care, including basic medical services such as imaging or blood tests, is much lower than that of the United States. For emergency services in Sierra Leone, dial 117. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Sierra Leone’s Federal Office of Public Health to ensure the medication is legal in Sierra Leone. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Altitude: Many cities in Sierra Leone, such as Kabala, are at high altitude. Be aware of the symptoms of altitude sickness and take precautions before you travel. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Travel to High Altitudes. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel. General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow Fever Typhoid Dengue Travelers’ Diarrhea Rabies Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information regarding specific issues in Sierra Leone. Air Quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Sierra Leone. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season between December and February. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes"
168,"Good medical care is widely available in Singapore. Doctors and hospitals: expect immediate, up-front payment for health services by credit card or cash generally do not accept U.S. health insurance may require a substantial deposit before admitting you for any major medical treatment. In certain circumstances, the Ministry of Health may access patient medical records without the consent of the patient, and in certain circumstances physicians may be required to report information relating to the diagnosis or treatment without the patient's consent. Employment pass holders are subject to medical exams and may be denied or deported on medical grounds, including for HIV infection. For emergency services in Singapore, dial 955. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with Singapore’s Health Sciences Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Singapore. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country. Hospitals and doctors may require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Singapore. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Singapore to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Singapore, subject to complex local regulation. For additional information, visit the Government of Singapore’s website for information on foreigner surrogacy. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Singapore. Mosquito-borne diseases: Dengue is active in Singapore and can be monitored at the Singapore National Environmental Agency . In addition, most neighboring countries are Zika endemic. Haze: Air pollution from forest fires in neighboring countries occurs intermittently, usually between July and October. Singapore’s National Environmental Agency’s Haze provides public updates on conditions."
169,"Access to quality medical care is limited in Sint Maarten. Facilities may not meet U.S. standards. There is one hospital on the Dutch Side, St. Maarten Medical Center (SMMC), which offers 24-hour emergency services. A list of medical facilities in Sint Maarten is available on our Consulate website. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Many medical specialties are unavailable in Sint Maarten. Critically ill patients must often be transferred to neighboring countries or to the United States. There is no decompression chamber in Sint Maarten. Below are important phone numbers for emergency assistance: Emergency: 911 Ambulance/EMS: 912 Hospital (Sint Maarten Medical Center): +1 (721) 543-1111 Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas.We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medicines : If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Sint Maarten to ensure the medication is legal in Sint Maarten.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following diseases are prevalent: Zika Virus Dengue Chikungunya Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Sint Maarten. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates."
170,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Slovakia. The quality and availability of medical facilities varies. A limited number of doctors speak English. For any emergency, including medical emergencies, call 112 . English-speaking dispatchers are usually available. Individuals with medical emergencies are transported to one of four main hospitals in Bratislava: Petrzalka Kramare Ruzinov Old Town Children’s emergencies are handled at Bratislava’s Children’s University Hospital. Ambulance services are widely available. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Without Slovak health insurance, ambulance service starts at 120 euros per transport . Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. You may need special insurance for hiking and skiing , which is available from local providers. If you stay longer than 90 days , you need local health insurance. The tick-borne encephalitis vaccination is recommended. Contact your doctor for more information. We do not pay medical bills . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in its original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with the Slovak Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Slovakia. The following disease is prevalent: Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) can result from the bites of ticks commonly found in the bushes and grass of forests in Slovakia at lower and middle elevations. They are most active from spring to late fall especially in the northern regions of Trencin and Zilina. Low risk exists throughout the rest of the country. Transmission occurs throughout the year, with highest activity from June through September. Even though the CDC does not explicitly recommend the TBE vaccine, other official European sources have recommended the TBE vaccine for travelers who plan to stay for extended periods or who plan to camp and stay outdoors. Vaccines are available through a general practitioner or a pediatrician in Slovakia but are not available in the U.S. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country. Doctors, hospitals, and ambulance services in Slovakia expect cash payment unless the patient can present an insurance number from the Slovak National Insurance Company or show proof of private insurance prior to needing medical care. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Nurses may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Although Slovakia has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies.  If you plan to undergo surgery in Slovakia, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available, and professionals are accredited and qualified. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations.  Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the CDC Medical Tourism for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Slovakia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are available through the Office of Supervision of Healthcare Providers , at the Public Health Authority . Official communication is in Slovak language only. Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription, are often readily available for purchase. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Slovakia does not allow the importation of medication unless the traveler shows the prescription and the amount necessary for the trip. Please review Slovakia’s rules on medication at the Slovak Ministry of Health . Non-Traditional Medicine Officially licensed medical providers can be verified at https://www.portaludzs.sk/overenie-poskytovatela-zdravotnej-starostlivosti Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy Surrogacy is illegal in Slovakia. Foreigners do not regularly travel to Slovakia for ART services. Water Quality: In Slovakia, tap water is potable. Bottled water and beverages are also safe. Air Quality: Cities in Slovakia have air pollution levels similar to those in major U.S. cities. Levels are generally low during the warm season but sometimes worse than U.S. standards in the cold season. Visit the European Environment Agency’s website for information on air quality in Slovakia. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
171,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Slovenia. Facilities For emergency services in Slovenia dial 112. Ambulance services are widely available and reliable. When contacting an ambulance, if you do not speak Slovenian, you may need to find a Slovenian speaker who can explain your location. Medical care throughout Slovenia is comparable to that found in the United States.. Emergency responders may determine that patients requiring specialized and more complex medical care need to be transported to Ljubljana Clinical Center (public hospital) by air. While many medical providers in Slovenia speak excellent English, that may not be the case for all medical staff. There is a list of English-speaking medical providers and 24-hour pharmacies on the U.S. Embassy’s website. Although most government-run institutions in Slovenia provide care at little or no cost to Slovenian nationals, foreign nationals, including U.S. citizens, are expected to pay the full cost directly. That said, prices in government-run clinics are very reasonable. Private clinics are also an option. For both, you will pay up front and can later seek reimbursement from your health insurance provider. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Clinics for preventive vaccinations can provide more information. Pharmaceuticals: Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Almost all prescriptions available in the United States are widely available in Slovenia (although may be under different names). You may need a prescription for medications (such as Ibuprofen when over 200 mg) that could be purchased over-the-counter in the United States. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought  into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Ljubljana has air pollution levels similar to those in major U.S. cities. Visit the European Environment Agency’s website for information on air quality in Slovenia. Water Quality: The tap water in Ljubljana and other cities in Slovenia is suitable for drinking. Precautions for safe food storage and preparation are the same as would be practiced in the United States. Detailed laboratory reports about the water quality are available in Slovenian language. Slovenia does not put fluoride in the tap water, so long term residents might want to consider fluoride supplements for their children. General Health Language: Make sure you are up-to-date on routine vaccines before every trip. These vaccines include measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine, diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccine, varicella (chickenpox) vaccine, polio vaccine, and your yearly flu shot. Slovenia has a high incidence of Lyme disease and encephalitis, both transmitted by ticks. For stays longer than three months, consider getting a vaccine to prevent tick-borne encephalitis. This vaccine is not available in the United States, but is available in Slovenia. Use insect repellent and inspect your body after being outdoors. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
172,"For emergency services in Solomon Islands, call St. Johns Ambulance service (+677) 38160 or (+677) 73 98566. Ambulance services are: Generally available in Honiara but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Not present throughout the rest of the country or are unreliable except in Honiara. May not be equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. In areas outside Honiara, injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi, private vehicle, water-borne transportation, or private foreign or local air ambulance service to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation, as medical evacuation to Australia, New Zealand, or the United States can cost thousands of dollars. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Travelers arriving from measles-affected countries must provide proof of measles vaccination administered no less than three weeks prior to arrival in Solomon Islands. For the purposes of this requirement, measles-affected countries include American Samoa, Samoa, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, and Philippines. This requirement does not apply to infants under six months of age, pregnant women, or to other travelers with documentary evidence of contraindications to measles vaccine administration. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Contact the U.S. Consular Agency in Honiara for a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Honiara and Auki, but health care may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics may lack basic resources and supplies. Medical staff may only speak basic English or Pidgin English. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions in Auki. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Legal options in cases of malpractice are extremely limited or non-existent in Solomon Islands. The nearest health facilities that offer comprehensive health care at U.S. standards are in Australia and New Zealand. Contact the U.S. Consular Agency in Honiara for a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Specialized care for scuba divers: The hyperbaric recompression chamber in Honiara is the only chamber in Solomon Islands and is operated by on-call volunteers. Medical complications resulting from scuba diving accidents may require evacuation to Australia or New Zealand. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. Specialized medicines may need to be ordered from Australia and may take weeks to arrive. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Dengue Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: The prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Solomon Islands is relatively low and stable. The National Referral Hospital in Honiara can provide HIV/AIDS antiretroviral therapy and perform HIV/AIDS tests. There are often shortages of medicines and medical supplies throughout Solomon Islands. Local pharmacies are generally equipped with basis medicines but not all pharmacies are reputable. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Solomon Islands."
173,"Please visit the U.S. Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Somalia. Water, health, and electricity systems in Somalia are poor. Medical care and services are extremely limited. Medicines are in short supply, and many pharmacies stock ineffective or counterfeit medications. Most care providers expect payment in U.S. dollars/Somali shillings prior to treatment. Ambulance services are not present or are unreliable in most areas except Mogadishu. Somalia Red Crescent Society services may be available in some areas in case of disasters/emergency. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical evacuation services in Somalia are extremely limited, and services responding from outside of the country will take more than six hours to respond. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Somali Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Somalia. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If you will be in Somalia for more than four weeks, the Somali government may require you to show proof of polio vaccination when you are exiting the country. If you were vaccinated against polio as a child but have never had a polio booster dose as an adult, or if you were not completely vaccinated as a child/do not know your vaccination status, talk to your doctor about getting vaccinated. To meet this requirement while in Somalia, you should receive a polio vaccine between 4 weeks and 12 months before the date you are leaving Somalia. Talk to your doctor about whether this requirement applies to you. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. Health facilities in general Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is generally unavailable. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. The following diseases are prevalent: African Tick Bite Fever Chikungunya Cholera Dengue Hantavirus Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Leishmaniasis Leptospirosis Malaria Measles Polio Rabies Schistosomiasis Tuberculosis (TB) Typhoid Yellow Fever Food-borne and water-borne illnesses are common. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about resources for travelers regarding specific issues in Somalia ."
174,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/ exit requirements related to COVID-19 in South Africa. For emergency services in South Africa, dial 10111 . Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards; not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except in major cities and may; not be equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. U.S. Medicare does not cover you overseas. Healthcare providers, including ambulances require payment in cash before services are performed. Private medical facilities are good in urban areas and in the vicinity of game parks but limited elsewhere. Private medical facilities require a deposit before admitting patients. Pharmacies are well-stocked, but you should carry an adequate supply of prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. HIV and AIDS is a major public health concern. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. If your health insurance plan does not provide coverage overseas, we strongly recommend supplemental medical insurance and medical evacuation plans . If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of South Africa to ensure the medication is legal in South Africa. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Malaria Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Leptospirosis Schistosomiasis African Tick-bite Fever Chikungunya Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever Rift River Valley Avian/Bird Flu Hantavirus Tuberculosis (TB) Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in urban areas but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls.  Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health Language Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS is prevalent in South Africa and by some estimates as many as 1 in 7 South African residents are infected. Infection rates are even higher (1 in 5) among younger residents. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in South Africa."
175,"Quality of Care : Western-style medical facilities are available in most large cities. However, not all doctors and staff, are proficient in English. A list of hospitals and medical specialists who speak English is available on our website. For emergency ambulance service dial 119. Ambulance services are widely available. For information on medical evacuation from South Korea, please see the State Department’s brochure on Air Ambulance/MedEvac/Medical Escort Providers . We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Verify your health insurance coverage before traveling overseas. See our webpage for information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . In most cases, health care providers will require payment in advance of treatment or will not release a patient until hospital bills are paid. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to include coverage for medical evacuation. Medication: Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Most prescription medications, except psychotropic types, can be obtained at Korean pharmacies (brand names often differ). Local pharmacies will require a prescription from a Korean doctor. Update vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 Testing: Travelers should contact Korean local health providers to determine the location of testing facilities within Korea. A non-comprehensive list of some COVID-19 testing facilities can be found on the Embassy website . COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizen residents in Korea. Review the Korean government’s Vaccination Guide for Foreign Nationals in Korea and COVID-19 Booster Shot Guideline for Foreign Nationals on COVID-19 vaccinations in Korea. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States."
176,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in South Sudan. For emergency services in South Sudan, dial 999. For Public Health Emergency Services (currently used for COVID), dial 6666. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country. Medical facilities in Juba fall far short of western standards. Outside Juba, the few hospitals and clinics that exist are poorly equipped and staffed. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with South Sudanese customs to ensure the medication is legal in South Sudan. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. All hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. All hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and those requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Always ensure that the bottle is sealed and do not allow staff to open the bottle for you. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. The following diseases are prevalent: Cholera Diarrheal illnesses Hepatitis A Malaria Meningococcal disease Typhoid Yellow fever HIV/AIDS Rabies Polio Measles Dengue Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. There are shortages of food, water, medicine, and medical supplies throughout South Sudan. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in South Sudan."
177,"Good medical care is available in Spain. However, regulations regarding medications vary from those in the United States. Spanish regulations do not permit the international shipment of medication . Do not ship medication from the United States to Spain . Spanish customs authorities will reject and return to the shipper medication mailed from the United States. This may cause a significant delay in receiving your medications. The U.S. Embassy cannot help you retrieve medications stopped by Spanish customs. Medications requiring prescriptions in the United States also require a local doctor’s prescription in Spain. In some instances, a medicine prescribed in the United States will not have a local equivalent. It is important that travelers research this on the European Agency for Medication website prior to travel. For emergency services in Spain, dial 112. You may ask for an English-speaking attendant. Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical care is not free in Spain. If you require medical attention, you will incur expenses, even if you are treated in a public healthcare facility. Lack of payment may bar future travel to Spain. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Spain Medication Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Spain. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available throughout the country. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance or funds before admitting a patient.  Medical staff may speak little or no English. Patients may be asked to bear costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Patients have to pay their medical treatment in public hospitals. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Spain to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal in Spain and subject to complex local regulation. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
178,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance (our webpage) to cover medical evacuation. Medical Facilities: There are six large hospitals in the Colombo area, including four facilities with emergency trauma service: Asiri Surgical Hospital; Lanka Hospital; Central Hospital; and the government-run National Hospital. Medical facilities outside Colombo are limited. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of private physicians available on the Embassy website . The availability of medical supplies is uneven; therefore, travelers should carry any special medications with them. Serious medical conditions do require evacuation to the United States or to a nearby country with more advanced medical facilities, such as Thailand or Singapore. Neither Thailand nor Singapore requires U.S. citizens to have entry visas. Several mosquito-borne diseases, including dengue fever, Chikungunya, and Japanese encephalitis are present in Sri Lanka. Dengue fever, in particular, is widespread in Sri Lanka’s Western Province, where the capital Colombo is located. Adequate mosquito protection is strongly advised. See the section on Entry/Exit Requirements (above) for information on communicable diseases such as HIV/AIDS. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
179,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on entry/ exit requirements related to COVID-19 in Sudan. Consult the CDC website for Sudan prior to travel. Medical facilities in Khartoum are adequate for routine care, but the hospitals are not suitable for more serious medical problems. Outside the capital, few facilities exist, hospitals and clinics are poorly equipped, and ambulance services are unavailable. Medicines are available only intermittently. Emergency medical treatment is provided for 24 hours before payment is required. For all other care, providers expect payment in Sudanese pounds in full before treatment is performed. For emergency services in Sudan, dial 333. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Khartoum. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription and bring enough medication for the duration of your trip. Check with Sudanese customs to ensure the medication is legal in Sudan. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following diseases are prevalent : Dengue Hepatitis A Meningococcal meningitis Rabies Yellow fever Malaria is widespread throughout the country. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
180,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Suriname. A Yellow Fever vaccine is required in some cases. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information. Medical care is limited in many areas of the country and does not meet U.S. standards. There is one public emergency room in Paramaribo. Medical specialists may not always be available. In general, hospital facilities are not air conditioned. Emergency medical care outside Paramaribo is limited and is virtually non-existent in the interior of the country. Hospitals and doctors require payment prior to service or admission. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. You can find prescription and over-the-counter medicines in pharmacies in Paramaribo, but the quality cannot be assured. There are frequent prescription medication shortages. Over-the-counter medications are generally available, but U.S. brands may not be available. The Government of Suriname requires that travelers arriving from or transiting through countries with risk of yellow fever transmission show proof of a yellow fever vaccination. Note that you may also be required to show proof of yellow fever vaccination upon departure from Suriname if traveling to or transiting through another country that requires it. For emergency services in Suriname, dial 115. You may also contact services directly at: Fire Department: 110 Police: 115 EMS: 113 Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except Paramaribo and Nickerie. not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal in Suriname. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Pharmaceuticals: U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. Suriname does not allow the importation of cannabidiol (CBD). Travelers should avoid carrying medications containing CBD. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: COVID-19 Dengue Malaria Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Suriname. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Paramaribo and Nickerie but health care in rural areas may be unavailable or below U.S. standards. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. In emergency cases, the service or admission is provided without upfront payment. Credit card payment is not available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash or local insurance payment."
181,"Medical facilities are limited throughout Eswatini, and emergency medical response capabilities (including ambulance transport) are very limited and almost non-existent in the rural areas. The Ezulwini Private Hospital in Ezulwini is a well-equipped and operated clinic. The Mbabane Clinic in the capital is small but it is well-equipped and well-staffed for minor procedures, as is the Manzini Clinic in Matsapha. For advanced care, U.S. citizens often choose to go to South Africa where better facilities and specialists exist. Most prescription drugs are available locally or can be imported from South Africa. Travelers are advised to bring sufficient quantities of their required medications in their original bottles For emergency services in Eswatini, dial 999 . Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except major cities or semi-urban areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medications, always, carry your prescription medications in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions Pharmaceuticals If you take medication, research beforehand whether the medication is illegal in Eswatini U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Language The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Tick bite fever Malaria (in certain areas). Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS: Eswatini has one of the highest prevalence of HIV in the world. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Eswatini. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the winter (dry) season when brush fires are common. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
182,"Medical care in Sweden is comparable to that found in the United States. Non-residents are expected to pay their own medical costs in full. For emergency services in Sweden, dial 112. Assistance in English is available. Ambulance services are widely available. For non-emergencies, you can visit a local medical center or clinic, called an “Akutmottagning” or “Vardcentral.” Be prepared to present your passport. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept credit card payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with Sweden’s Medical Products Agency to ensure the medication is legal in Sweden. Please note that local physicians may not prescribe the quantities or dosages of medication that a U.S. doctor would. Stringent Swedish customs regulations prohibit the shipment of drugs to Sweden. Most pharmacies (“Apotek”) are open during normal shopping hours, but major cities will have a 24-hour pharmacy. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended for international travel by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of local hospitals and health facilities here .  We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
183,"For emergency services in Switzerland dial 144, or 117 for the police. Medical care is comparable to that found in the United States. Ambulance services are widely available. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Swiss medical facilities and care providers will ask for you to settle your bills onsite and you will have to claim a refund with your insurer later. It is common for hospitals to ask for a deposit to ensure medical costs will be covered. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. Medications: Over-the-counter medicine is available at pharmacies and a pharmacist is on call 24/7. Information regarding the pharmacy and pharmacist on duty in your area can be obtained over the medical emergency telephone line by dialing 144. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Swiss Federal Customs Administration to ensure the medication is legal in Switzerland. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is common. Travelers planning high-risk activities (camping, adventure travel) should take precautions. See the website of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for more details on TBE and TBE prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
184,"Basic medical care and medicines are available in Damascus and some coastal areas, but not necessarily in other areas. Serious illnesses and emergencies may require evacuation to a neighboring country or Western medical facility.  There are shortages of food, water, medicine, and medical supplies throughout Syria. For emergency services in Syria, dial 110 for ambulance and 113 for fire. Ambulance services are not present throughout the country, except in the capital and provincial cities. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills. Also, be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Find out if your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas, though hospitals and doctors abroad may not accept it.  Care providers in Syria only accept cash payments up front, and the cost for services can be expensive. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage .  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation.  In addition, you might wish to check whether your insurance will cover injuries sustained in a conflict zone. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Syria to ensure that the medication is legal in Syria.  Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The following diseases are prevalent: Tuberculosis Measles Polio Typhoid Hepatitis A Diarrheal disease COVID-19: The Department of State has a limited ability to monitor COVID-19 conditions in Syria.  U.S. citizens who must travel to Syria are strongly urged to get fully vaccinated and get a booster shot before travel, and should take additional personal health safety measures to protect themselves, including practicing social or physical distancing, cleaning hands with soap/hand sanitizer, wearing well-fitted masks, and avoiding crowded areas with poor ventilation. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
185,"Taiwan has modern medical facilities, with state-of-the-art equipment available at many hospitals and clinics. Physicians are well trained, and many have studied in the United States and speak English. Hospital nursing services provide medication and wound care but generally do not provide the daily patient care functions found in U.S. hospitals. Taiwan requires masks in healthcare facilities and ambulances to prevent the spread of diseases, including COVID-19. For emergency services in Taiwan, dial 119. Ambulance services are widely available; have emergency equipment and supplies; and are staffed by trained medical personnel. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Taiwan hospitals and doctors do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) website for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Taiwan Ministry of Health and Welfare to ensure the medication is legal in Taiwan. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all routine vaccinations recommended by the U.S. CDC . Vaccinations are available at all major Taiwan hospitals. Dengue Fever: In recent years, Taiwan has seen cases of dengue fever, a virus common in subtropical regions that is spread through mosquito bites. There is currently no vaccine or medicine to prevent dengue. Travelers can protect themselves by preventing mosquito bites. For information on how to reduce the risk of contracting dengue, please visit the U.S. CDC website . COVID-19: Major Taiwan healthcare facilities have COVID-19 testing capabilities and can administer FDA-approved COVID-19 vaccines. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The American Institute in Taiwan does not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. For further health information : World Health Organization (WHO) U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
186,"Medical care is limited and significantly below U.S. standards, with severe shortages of basic medical supplies, including disposable needles, anesthetics, prescriptions drugs, and antibiotics. For emergency services in Tajikistan, dial 03 (103 from cell phone). Ambulance services are (select one or more as appropriate): Not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except in Dushanbe. Not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. COVID-19 Requirements for Entry: There are no COVID-related entry requirements for U.S. citizens. COVID-19 Testing: Gemotest Medical Laboratory (48-703-13-13) provides same-day Russian language test results, as well as English language certificate with a QR code confirming the validity of the test results at a cost of 123 TJS (approximately $13) paid by the patient. Travelers have the option to receive the results and certificate through email or download them from the laboratory’s official website, or collect a physical copy from the facility. Diamed Clinic (44-601-90-16) provides same-day English language test results at a cost of 130 TJS (approximately $13) paid by the patient. Travelers will need to collect a physical copy of their results from the clinic. Prospekt Medical Clinic (48-702-44-00) charges 403 TJS (approximately $40) paid by the patient with the next-day results. The clinic provides the services during weekdays and is closed on Saturdays and Sundays. Travelers will need to collect a physical copy of their results from the clinic. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Tajikistan. The U.S. Embassy in Dushanbe is aware that Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca, and Sinovac-CoronaVac COVID-19 vaccines are available at Prospekt Medical Clinic (48-702-44-00), subject to availability. Please contact the clinic directly for information about cost and availability. Due to extremely limited vaccine availability, we strongly recommend that travelers complete their COVID-19 vaccination before traveling to Tajikistan. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. There have been outbreaks of the following diseases: Water-borne diseases (such as Giardia) Hemorrhagic Fever Hepatitis A, B & C (frequently transmitted through medical and dental procedures) Malaria – in the southern region at Afghan border Tuberculosis (including multidrug-resistant (MDR-TB) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR-TB) varieties) Typhoid – in Dushanbe and the southern provinces of Khatlon Rabies Chicken Pox Measles Drink bottled or thoroughly boiled water while in Tajikistan. Avoid contact with street dogs in urban areas. Pollution levels in Tajikistan are reported online at AirNow.gov . Exercise caution and adjust your outdoor activities on days when pollution levels are elevated. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides medical coverage in Tajikistan. Care providers in Tajikistan are not able to accept credit cards; therefore, providers only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation due to inability of local medical providers to address many urgent-care situations. Prescriptions: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Tajikistan’s website to ensure that the medication is legal in Tajikistan. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
187,"We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Click here to access the list of medical facilities in Tanzania from the Embassy website. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Although Tanzania typically only requires yellow fever shots for those traveling from an endemic country, there are occasional reports of officials requiring yellow fever shots from all foreign travelers. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
188,"For emergency services in Thailand, dial 1669 for Emergency Medical Services (EMS). Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas except for Bangkok and other major cities. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Medical treatment is generally adequate in Thailand’s urban areas. In Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Phuket, and Pattaya, good facilities exist for routine, long-term, and emergency health care. Basic medical care is available in rural areas, but English-speaking providers are rare. Medical tourism is an established and rapidly growing industry. You should consult with your local physician before traveling and also refer to information on medical tourism from CDC. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medicine for personal use is allowed as long as the amount does not exceed a 30-day supply and you bring the medicine with you. Do not mail medicine to Thailand without first confirming it will be allowed into the country. If traveling with prescription medication, check with Thailand Customs and the Thailand Food and Drug Administration to ensure the medication is legal in Thailand. Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are present: Dengue Chikungunya Japanese encephalitis Zika Tuberculosis: Influenza Malaria Rabies Cholera Hepatitis A and B HIV/AIDS Typhoid Melioidosis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: The air quality in Thailand varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons, but seasonal smog is a problem. In recent years the air quality in Bangkok, Chiang Mai, Khon Kaen, Lampang, Nan, and Samut Sakhon have exceeded Thai and U.S. government daily standards for fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) for a portion of the year. In Chiang Mai and other northern provinces, annual agricultural burning, approximately February through late April, and forest fires cause days with unhealthy to hazardous air quality based on the U.S. index. In Bangkok environs, airborne dust and auto pollutants are prevalent in the cooler, dry period (December-February). Anyone who travels where pollution levels are high is at risk. People at the greatest risk from air pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease People who work or are active outdoors For Bangkok and Chiang Mai, U.S. Mission Thailand is reporting the U.S. EPA’s Air Quality Index (AQI) calculated from PM2.5 data captured by monitors owned and maintained by the Royal Thai Government. The information and advice on health protection measures to take is available Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate health facilities are available in Bangkok and other major cities but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. Hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available. Medical staff at public hospitals may speak little or no English. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery: Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Thailand. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Thailand. Although Thailand has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Thailand, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy: If you are considering traveling to Thailand to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Surrogacy is illegal for foreigners in Thailand, subject to complex local regulation. For additional information, visit the Government of Thailand’s website for information on foreigner surrogacy. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Thailand via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . COVID-19 Testing: For the most current list of COVID-19 testing locations in Thailand approved by the Ministry of Public Health, please visit: http://service.dmsc.moph.go.th/labscovid19 .  Testing is paid for by U.S. citizens. The Ministry of Public Health provides a list of 44 laboratories approved to conduct COVID-19 testing found here . Please Note : Same-day Covid-19 testing is available at most private hospitals throughout Thailand.  Please reference this list of testing locations and contact the provider directly to inquire about COVID-19 testing options, scheduling, cost, and other information. COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in Thailand. According to Thai authorities, both private and public hospitals are providing COVID-19 vaccines. More information on a list of hospitals in Thailand is available here . The Bang Rak Vaccination and Health Center, the Institute of Dermatology, and the Bamrasnaradura Infectious Diseases Institute are currently providing free bivalent vaccines to non-Thai citizens on a walk-in basis. Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States."
189,"For emergency services in The Gambia, dial 117 . Ambulance services are unreliable in most areas, including in the immediate capital region. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments and individuals must then seek reimbursement. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the government of The Gambia, via the nearest embassy or consulate, to ensure the medication is legal. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The government of the Gambia does not require vaccines for citizens of the United States unless they are arriving in the Gambia from a yellow fever zone. Visit the U.S Centers for Disease Control’s website to review their recommendations for vaccinations for travelers to the Gambia. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Medical facilities are very limited, some treatments are unavailable, and emergency services can be unpredictable and unreliable. Sanitation may not be at the same level as in the United States There are no trauma centers in The Gambia and severe accidents require evacuation to Senegal, Europe or the United States. General Health: The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Zika Yellow Fever Dengue Fever Diarrheal Illness Rabies Meningococcal Meningitis Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in The Gambia. Water Quality: Tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Air Quality: The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst during harmattan, between the months of January and April. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors"
190,"Limited emergency medical care is available in Dili and options for routine medical care throughout the rest of the country are extremely limited. Serious medical problems may require medical evacuation to Australia (the nearest point with acceptable medical care), Singapore, or the United States, which can cost thousands of dollars. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Timor-Leste to ensure the medication is legal in Timor-Leste. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent: Dengue Fever Chikungunya Malaria (MED level 2) Tuberculosis Japanese Encephalitis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
191,"Togo no longer requires documentation related to Covid-19 (such as proof of vaccination, negative PCR test, or antigen test) when entering or exiting Togo. However, it is recommended to passengers, when leaving Togo, to verify the current Covid-19 requirements in their destination country to ensure compliance. Travelers aged 12 and up are encouraged to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and to observe health precautions. Medical facilities and services in Togo are severely limited, including in the major cities of Lomé and Kara. The standard of care, including basic medical services, such as imaging or blood tests, is much lower than that of the United States and even neighboring Ghana. If you have a recurring or limiting medical condition that requires regular consultation or treatment by a medical professional, you should not travel to Togo. You should carry adequate supplies of any needed prescription medicines, along with copies of your prescriptions, the generic name of the drugs, and a supply of preferred over-the-counter medications. You may encounter shortages of routine medications, and supplies and counterfeit medications are a frequent problem. Refer to the CDC website for health information for travelers to Togo . For emergency services in Togo, dial: Police – 117 Gendarmerie – 172 Fire (sapeurs pompiers) – 118 Main Lomé Hospital Sylvanus Olympio – 22 21 25 01 (most suitable for trauma) Embassy’s Duty Officer – 90 25 84 78 Ambulance services are: not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance :  Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The Togolese government does not maintain a website with prohibited medications, but usually if the medication is legal in France, it is legal in Togo. Vaccinations :  Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further Health Information : World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Health Facilities in General : Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Hospitals and doctors require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not available. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Pharmaceuticals : Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescriptions in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Non-Traditional Medicine : U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Togo. Ensure that you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Water Quality : In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Do not swim or bathe in or drink fresh or brackish water in streams, rivers, waterfalls, or lakes in Togo. Both Guinea Worm and Schistosomiasis are common in Togo, and contracted primarily through exposure to fresh water, even if the body of water is fast moving or is partially salty. Adventure Travel : Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . Most adventure travel in Togo involves the ocean – swimming, whale watching, fishing, surfing, and wind surfing. Travelers coming to Togo for ocean-based recreation should use caution when engaging in these activities in a new area. The undertow is extremely strong, particularly from January to May, across the entire Bight of Benin, which includes Ghana, Benin and Togo. Water depths are variable, and water that may appear shallow near the coast can suddenly deepen due to variations in sand or wave formations. Togo has no emergency capability to respond to swimmers in distress, near drownings, or stranded or capsized vessels. General Health : The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Yellow Fever Typhoid Dengue Travelers’ Diarrhea Rabies Meningococcal Meningitis Tuberculosis Schistosomiasis Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) – recommended mosquito repellents, and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Travelers should carry their own mosquito repellent according to CDC recommendations. The Embassy cannot guarantee the quality and the side effects of the repellent products available locally. Visit the CDC website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Togo. Air Quality :  Visit Air Now Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. embassies and consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . The Embassy does not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgey : Visit the CDC website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Togo."
192,"For emergency services in Tonga dial 911. Ambulance services are: not present throughout the country or are unreliable in most areas. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The Department of State does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Special Circumstances : Health facilities: Vaiola Hospital, a private “referral” hospital is in Tonga’s capital, Nuku’alofa, with a 24/7 emergency department, and with medical and surgical capabilities to respond to emergencies of differing levels, and is able to stabilize patients if needed to medevac overseas. All essential drugs are available according to the essential drug list, and if specific drugs are not available, there may be other alternative of the same brand available from six nearby private pharmacies. The islands of Vava’u, Ha’apai and ‘Eua have hospitals. The hospital in Eua offers very limited medical services compared to that of Vava’u and Ha’apai. Local residents with serious medical/surgical problems beyond capabilities available in Tonga are often referred to New Zealand for treatment. For additional information on medical visas for New Zealand, contact the Embassy of New Zealand , 37 Observatory Circle NW, Washington, DC 20008, (202) 328-4800 or the New Zealand Consulate General in Los Angeles (310) 207-1605. Medical services offered from Tonga Government/public hospitals are free of charge for all Tongans/naturalized Tongans, but varying fees are charged to non-Tongans or tourists at all health care facilities, public or private. Cash payment or by electronic debit (EFTPOS) are preferred means. No hyperbaric chamber is available to treat diving-related injuries in Tonga. Medical evacuation to the nearest chamber in Fiji and Nauru is expensive. Travelers should consider travel insurance. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Pharmaceuticals If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Ministry of Health to ensure the medication is legal and available in Tonga . Always, carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with limited controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health Information The following diseases are prevalent Dengue Chikungunya Zika Virus Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets. Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Tonga."
193,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page more information on COVID-19 in Trinidad and Tobago. For emergency services in Trinidad and Tobago, dial: 999 for police or 990 for Fire/EMS. Ambulance services are not widely available, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. Public ambulance service is limited and often has slow response times due to low availability and high demand. There are private ambulance services.  The patient has to pay prior to receiving the service. See this page for a list of private air and regular ambulance services in Trinidad and Tobago. Medical care is below U.S. standards. While care at some private facilities is better than at most public health facilities, patients may need to prove ability to pay before receiving assistance, even in emergencies. Patients requiring blood transfusions are expected to arrange for at least the same amount to be donated on their behalf. Physicians and nurses have been known to go on strike, straining public medical services. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Many care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago to ensure the medication is legal in Trinidad and Tobago. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Please note that many medicines prescribed in the United States are not easily accessible through the local pharmacies. It is recommended to have enough stock of medicines for at least 6 months. The following diseases are present: Zika Chikungunya Dengue Yellow Fever Travelers' Diarrhea. A high risk exists throughout the country, with moderate risk in deluxe accommodations. Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Swimming Safety: Do not enter the water at unmarked, unpatrolled beaches. Tides and undercurrents can be dangerous, and waves can exceed five feet in height. Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Trinidad and Tobago. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
194,"For emergency services in Tunisia, dial 190. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not present throughout Tunisia or are unreliable in most areas except Tunis, Sfax, Sousse, and Monastir. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not always staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas.  Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Tunisia Ministry of Public Health or the Central Pharmacy of Tunisia to ensure the medication is legal in Tunisia. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Air pollution is a moderate problem in major cities in Tunisia. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Adequate but below U.S. standards health facilities are available in Tunis and other major cities. Public medical clinics lack basic resources, supplies, staffing, and hygiene. Hospitals and doctors often require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not always available.  Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Private hospitals usually require advance payment before admitting a patient. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Be aware that travelers will not receive a medical report after service unless specifically requested. Be aware that some hotels, resorts, etc. have exclusive agreements with medical providers, which may limit your choices in seeking emergency medical attention. Medical staff may speak little or no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight in non-emergency wards. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are very limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on Medical Tourism. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on Medical Tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Tunisia. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Tunisia. Although Tunisia has many elective/cosmetic surgery facilities that are on par with those found in the United States, the quality of care varies widely. If you plan to undergo surgery in Tunisia, make sure that emergency medical facilities are available, and professionals are accredited and qualified. Pharmaceuticals Tunisia has severe shortages of medications, and not all medications available in the United States are available in Tunisia. Plan in advance before traveling. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas. Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients. Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Check with the Tunisia Ministry of Public Health or the Central Pharmacy of Tunisia to find available medications and restrictions on importing medication. Non-Traditional Medicine U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died while seeking medical care from non-traditional “healers” and practitioners in Tunisia. Ensure you have access to licensed emergency medical facilities in such cases. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
195,"Medical care provided in Turkish hospitals varies greatly. Though new private hospitals in Ankara, Antalya, Izmir and Istanbul have modern facilities, equipment, numerous U.S.-trained specialists, and international accreditation, some still may be unable to treat certain serious conditions. Health care standards are lower in small cities in Turkey. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the government of Turkey to ensure the medication is legal in Turkey. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Some medications may be unavailable in Turkey. For U.S. citizens who live in Turkey , please see the Embassy’s website for information on the Turkish General Health Insurance (GHI) law . If you are considering enrolling in Turkish GHI, carefully research what is and is not covered. Once you enroll in GHI, your coverage can only be cancelled if your residence permit expires or if you no longer reside in Turkey. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
196,"The Government of Turkmenistan requires all visitors ages 18 and over entering the country to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19. For emergency services in Turkmenistan, dial 03 . Ambulance services are not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. The U.S. Embassy does not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on the type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medical care is limited and well below U.S. standards. U.S. citizens in Turkmenistan often travel to other countries for medical treatment, including many routine procedures. Basic medical supplies, including disposable needles, anesthetics, and antibiotics, are often in short supply. The U.S. Embassy strongly recommends that U.S. citizens not undergo invasive procedures in Turkmenistan. Undergoing any such procedure may place you at risk of serious illness. If you have a serious medical condition, check with your physician before planning travel to Turkmenistan. Prescriptions : If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Turkmenistan to ensure that the medication is legal in Turkmenistan. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water."
197,"There are two hospital facilities on Providenciales and Grand Turk managed by InterHealth Canada that are able to handle non-life threatening medical needs. However, serious medical problems may require medical evacuation by air to neighboring countries or the United States. The repatriation of the remains of U.S. citizens who die in Turks and Caicos can take weeks to return to the United States because Turks and Caicos does not always have a pathologist available to perform autopsies. Periodically-scheduled nonresident foreign pathologists often travel to Turks and Caicos to perform this public service. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare or Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medicines: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Government of Turks and Caicos to ensure the medication is legal in Turks and Caicos. Always carry your prescription medication in its original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
198,"Medical and dental care is very limited in Tuvalu. Serious medical problems are referred to health professionals and hospitals in Guam or Hawaii. Serious medical conditions requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the United States can cost thousands of dollars. Doctors and hospitals often expect payment “up front” prior to service or admission. For emergency services in Tuvalu, dial 911 . Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals [LINK]. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. General Health Language: The following diseases and health concerns are prevalent: Tuberculosis Dengue Chikungunya Typhoid Food safety Clean water Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Tuvalu."
199,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Uganda. Medical facilities in Uganda are limited and only equipped to handle minor medical emergencies. Surgical capabilities are inadequate, and blood supplies may be insufficient. Outside Kampala, hospitals are scarce and offer only basic services. Travelers should carry their own supplies of prescription drugs and preventive medicines. A list of medical providers is available at the U.S. Embassy website. For emergency services in Uganda, dial 999 Ambulance services are not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. We do not pay medical bills . Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance : Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. If traveling with prescription medication, check with the Embassy of Uganda to ensure the medication is legal in Uganda. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are known to occur in Uganda: Hepatitis B Meningitis Yellow fever Typhoid Malaria HIV Polio Tuberculosis (TB) Marburg hemorrhagic fever Pneumonic plague Schistosomiasis Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in several major cities in Uganda. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the dry season (December-February and June-July). People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals [ https://ug.usembassy.gov/u-s-citizen-services/doctors/ ]. We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
200,"By Ukrainian law, all foreigners coming to Ukraine must have medical insurance covering their period of travel. Note that the general quality of healthcare in Ukraine does not meet U.S. standards. Fees at government clinics and hospitals are lower than those at private clinics, but there have been reports that doctors request bribes or additional payments before treating patients. Private physicians and private hospitals charge fees for services, and some do not accept local health insurance. Public facilities only accept cash payments, while most private clinics accept credit cards. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication: If traveling with prescription medication, check with the State Register of Medicines (Ukrainian language only) to ensure the medication is legal to bring into the country, as many medications that are legal in the United States are prohibited in Ukraine. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. The following diseases are prevalent in Ukraine: Influenza Tuberculosis Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
201,"COVID-19 Testing: COVID-19 testing is available throughout the UAE at private facilities and official government health centers. Testing is generally paid for by the U.S. citizen. Test results are usually sent via text message or email. Additional information on COVID-19 testing can be found on the SEHA website . COVID-19 Vaccines: The COVID-19 vaccine is available for U.S. citizens to receive in the UAE. According to the UAE Ministry of Health and Prevention, residents and visitors may receive COVID-19 vaccines at any SEHA vaccination center, but only residents may receive vaccines free of charge. For additional information, please see the Ministry of Health and Prevention website . Visit the FDA's website to learn more about FDA-approved vaccines in the United States. Adequate health facilities are available, but health care in rural areas may be below U.S. standards. While most common conditions can be appropriately treated in the UAE, complex medical conditions may be better treated in the United States. Providers may recommend a large number of procedures and tests, some of which may be unnecessary. Hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient, except in emergencies. Travelers should make efforts to obtain complete information on billing, pricing, and proposed medical procedures before agreeing to any medical care. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. For emergency services in the UAE, dial 999 . Ambulance services are widely available. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. You may be denied care, even in an emergency, if you are unable to provide a cash deposit up-front. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Medication: Many prescription and over-the-counter medications are prohibited in the UAE, and possession of such substances without the appropriate approval is generally treated the same as possession of illegal narcotics. All tourists and residents of the UAE should seek prior approval, via an online form, before carrying certain types of medications, narcotics, or chemical substances to or through the UAE. The service can be accessed directly on the Ministry of Health and Prevention’s website . Travelers can also find updated lists of prohibited medications requiring prior approval on the same website. Travelers with prescription medication must have their prescriptions issued by licensed doctors and authenticated by the appropriate authorities. In order for a U.S. prescription to be fully authenticated, it must be authenticated by the Secretary of State of the U.S. state in which the prescribing doctor is licensed, then by the U.S. Department of State, and finally by the UAE Embassy in Washington, DC. Additional information on authentication of documents can be found on the State Department’s website and on the Embassy and Consulate General website . Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Further queries may be directed to the UAE Ministry of Health’s Drug Control Department in Abu Dhabi. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. For further health information, go to: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in UAE. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you, and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema; People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors The U.S. Embassy and Consulate General maintain a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic."
202,"While medical services are widely available, free medical care under the National Health System (NHS) is allowed only for UK residents, certain EU nationals, and some visa holders. An NHS surcharge is assessed on certain visa applicants at the time of application. Tourists and short-term visitors will not be assessed the surcharge, but will be charged 150 percent of the cost of any medical treatment they receive from the NHS. Unpaid balances of £1,000 or more can result in being barred from return to the United Kingdom. The U.S. government does not pay medical bills, and U.S. Medicare is not valid overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas . Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments . See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Traveling with sufficient supplies to last the duration of your trip is recommended. Mailing prescriptions is prohibitive and may be delayed or rejected by British customs. Certain prescriptions available in the United States are classified as a ""controlled drug"" in the United Kingdom and cannot be brought into the country without applying for and obtaining a prior license. This includes prescriptions for medical marijuana or products containing CBD and THC.  Please visit the https://www.gov.uk/travelling-controlled-drugs for additional information. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended for international travel by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
203,"Medical care facilities in Uruguay are considered adequate and most are comparable to U.S. standards. The responsiveness of emergency, personal ambulance service is generally within U.S. standards; however there may be service delays if questions about health insurance coverage arise. Ambulances are staffed with a medical doctor, enabling advanced treatment/care en route to the local hospital. The U.S. Government does not pay medical bills, and U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Serious medical problems requiring hospitalization and/or medical evacuation to the United States can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Travelers on cruise ships with stops in Uruguay are strongly urged to verify their overseas health insurance coverage. Most health care providers in Uruguay accept cash and credit card payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Carry prescription medication in original packaging with your doctor’s prescription. There is no restriction on types of medication that can be imported for personal use. Some medications may not be available in Uruguay, so bring a sufficient supply for your stay. While rare, the Uruguayan summer can bring about an increase in diarrheal illness and mosquito-borne diseases, so the use of insect repellent is advisable. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There are no special vaccination requirements for Uruguay. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)"
204,"Medical care in Uzbekistan is below U.S. standards with shortages of basic medical supplies, including disposable needles, anesthetics, and antibiotics. Some medication sold in local pharmacies is known to be counterfeit. Elderly travelers and those with pre-existing health problems may be at particular risk due to inadequate medical facilities. Most resident U.S. citizens travel to North America or Europe for their medical needs. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight, and medical staff may speak little or no English.  Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals.  Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institutions. For emergency services in Uzbekistan, dial 103 (Tashkent) or 03 (most of Uzbekistan). Other provider numbers are: Fire: 101 (Tashkent), 01 (most of Uzbekistan) Police: 102 (Tashkent), 02 (most of Uzbekistan) Ministry of Emergency Situations: 1050 (Tashkent), 050 (most of Uzbekistan) Ambulance services are: widely available but training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. staffed with trained physicians and paramedics with limited medical equipment. private ambulance services may have quicker response times and are available in some major cities. very few English speaking providers are available. injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Pharmaceuticals: Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Check with Uzbekistan’s laws and legislation to ensure the medication is legal in Uzbekistan Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Water Quality: In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Air Quality : Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. Air pollution is a significant problem in major cities in Uzbekistan. Consider the impact seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you and consult your doctor before traveling if necessary. Adventure Travel: Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . U.S. Embassy Tashkent’s Consular Section maintains a list of medical contacts ."
205,"Criminal Penalties: You are subject to local laws. If you violate local laws, even unknowingly, you may be expelled, arrested, or imprisoned. Individuals establishing a business or practicing a profession that requires additional permits or licensing should seek information from the competent local authorities, prior to practicing or operating a business. Local customary law is observed in Vanuatu especially in rural areas. Disputes based in customary law are generally resolved through a compensation-based settlement mediated by law enforcement or law government officials. Furthermore, some laws are also prosecutable in the United States, regardless of local law. For examples, see our website on crimes against minors abroad and the Department of Justice website. Arrest Notification: If you are arrested or detained, ask police or prison officials to notify the U.S. Embassy immediately. See our webpage for further information. Customs: Vanuatu customs authorities may enforce strict regulations on importing or exporting items such as firearms, certain prescription drugs, wooden artifacts, exotic animals, food items, and sexually explicit material. Other products may be subject to quarantine. For specific information regarding customs requirements, contact the Permanent Mission of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United Nations, 800 Second Avenue, Suite 400B, New York, NY 10017, Telephone: (212) 661-4303; fax: (212) 422-3427, (212) 661-5544. Natural Disasters: Vanuatu is among the most natural disaster prone countries in the world. Visitors should be aware that natural disasters can occur at any time with little or not notice. For general information on disaster preparedness visit the Department of State Natural Disaster webpage. Cyclones: Cyclones can occur suddenly in Vanuatu. Cyclone season usually lasts from November to April. Damaging winds, rough seas, intense rain and flash flooding, landslides, and disruptions to services may occur. Local media and hotels will convey cyclone alerts issued by local authorities. Volcanoes/Earthquakes: Vanuatu is frequently subject to volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and tsunamis. If you plan to visit volcanic areas, contact the Department of Geology and Mines at (677) 22423 or the Vanuatu Tourism Office at prior to traveling to areas where volcanic activity may occur. Detailed information about earthquakes is available from the National Earthquake Information Center of the United States Geological Survey . If a natural disaster occurs, follow the advice of local authorities. Visit the Vanuatu Meteorology and Geo-Hazards page to obtain current climate advisories, including volcano activity levels. All of Ambae Island and parts of Ambrym Island have been evacuated permanently due to regular volcanic activity. Avoid these areas and others under evacuation orders. Faith-Based Travelers: See the following webpages for details: Faith-Based Travel Information International Religious Freedom Report – see country reports Human Rights Report – see country reports Hajj Fact Sheet for Travelers Best Practices for Volunteering Abroad LGBTI Travelers: Same-sex sexual relations are criminalized in Vanuatu. See our LGBTI Travel Information page and section 6 of our Human Rights report for further details. Travelers with Disabilities: The law in Vanuatu does not prohibit discrimination against persons with physical, sensory, intellectual, or mental disabilities. Social acceptance of persons with disabilities in public is not as prevalent as in the United States. Expect accessibility to be limited in public transportation, lodging, communication/information, and general infrastructure. Accessibility is generally more prevalent in the capital city, Port Vila. The availability of rental, repair, replacement parts for aids/equipment/devices, or service providers, such as sign language interpreters or personal assistants is extremely limited. Students: See our Students Abroad page and FBI travel tips . Women Travelers: See our travel tips for Women Travelers ."
206,"All air passengers entering Venezuela must present a certificate of vaccination against COVID-19 (completed vaccination schedule) in either physical or digital format (with QR code), with the last dose administered at least 14 days prior to the entry date in Venezuela.  If more than 270 days has passed since the last dose of a completed vaccination schedule, proof of a booster dose is required.  In lieu of proof of vaccination, passengers must present a negative PCR-RT COVID-19 test result, taken within 72 hours of arriving.  Please visit the U.S. Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Venezuela. For emergency services in Venezuela, dial 171. Ambulance services are: not widely available, depending on the individual’s health insurance, and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. unreliable in most areas. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. Emergency medical evacuation flights between the United States and Venezuela may not be possible. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas.  Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments.  See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage.  Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on types of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription.  Before travelling to Venezuela with prescription medications, travelers should research current Customs and Immigration restrictions in place at Venezuelan ports of entry. Vaccinations: Be up to date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  A Yellow Fever vaccination is required if coming from or transiting for more than 12 hours through Brazil.  Carry your International Certificate of Vaccination (or yellow card) with you upon arrival. Health Facilities in General: Do not depend on health care facilities in Venezuela for medical care. Serious medical issues require costly medical evacuation complicated by restrictions on air travel to and from Venezuela.  Air evacuations to the United States may not be possible. Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies, including soap and water.  In recent years, hospital infrastructure has deteriorated significantly, and medical staff are in short supply.  Patients frequently must supply their own water, medication, and medical instruments to receive care. Adequate private health facilities are available in Caracas and other major cities, but health care in rural areas is well below U.S. standards.  Many private hospitals and clinics are increasingly overcrowded and experience shortages of public utilities such as electricity and running water. Some private hospitals and doctors require cash payment “up front” prior to service or admission.  Credit card payment and online transfers are sometimes available.  If you cannot provide an up-front payment, you may be referred to a public institution. Medical staff may speak little to no English. Generally, in public hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight.  Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients may be required to bear costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities. Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery U.S. citizens have suffered serious complications or died during or after having cosmetic or other elective surgery. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for information on medical tourism, the risks of medical tourism, and what you can do to prepare before traveling to Venezuela. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Venezuela. Pharmaceuticals: Some medical supplies are unavailable in Venezuela, and you should not expect to find all necessary medications in Venezuela.  Travelers should carry over the counter and prescription drugs sufficient to cover the entire duration of their trips. Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls.  Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States.  Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States.  Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States.  Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Venezuela to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . There is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in Venezuela.  According to Venezuelan law, the birth mother of a child born in Venezuela is the legal mother.  Surrogacy agreements between foreign or same sex intending parents and gestational mothers are not enforced by Venezuelan courts. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Venezuela via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship.  Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality: Tap water is not potable, even in major cities.  Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested.  Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Expect frequent shortages in running water. Gastrointestinal illnesses such as severe diarrhea are common throughout the country. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . General Health The following diseases are prevalent: COVID-19 Dengue Zika Chikungunya Chagas Disease (Trypanosomiasis) Measles (Rubeloa) Malaria Leishmaniasis Schistosomiasis (Bilharzia) Travelers’ Diarrhea Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Venezuela."
207,"Please visit Mission Vietnam’s COVID-19 page or more information on COVID-19 in Vietnam. Medical facilities in Vietnam, including emergency response services, frequently do not meet international standards and may lack medicine and supplies. We strongly recommend travelers purchase medical evacuation insurance before visiting Vietnam. Medical personnel generally speak little or no English. Doctors and hospitals expect immediate cash payment for health services. You may obtain lists of local English-speaking physicians from the U.S. Embassy in Hanoi or the U.S. Consulate General in Ho Chi Minh City from our website . International health clinics in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City can treat minor illnesses and injuries, but more serious problems often require medical evacuation to other cities in the region. Although you can purchase many prescription and non-prescription medications at pharmacies, some common U.S. medications may not be available. You should bring adequate supplies of medications for the duration of your stay in Vietnam and ensure with the Ministry of Health that the medicine you need is allowed to enter Vietnam. You should carry a copy of your prescription if carrying medicine in a travel case or container. We strongly recommend travelers purchase medical evacuation insurance before visiting Vietnam. Travelers to Vietnam are at risk of the following diseases: Tuberculosis, Dengue Fever, Zika, Avian Influenza (H5N1), and HIV. You can find detailed information on vaccinations and other health precautions on the CDC website . We do not pay medical bills. The U.S. government cannot pay medical bills and does not provide medical assistance. Also, be aware that U.S. Medicare/Medicaid does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept upfront payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. If covered by TriCare, check the TriCare website ( https://www.tricare.mil/ ) for additional information about overseas coverage. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation as it can cost many thousands of dollars. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. It is extremely important that travelers have sufficient funds and/or insurance to cover any potential medical costs.  Frequently hospitals will hold onto a patient’s passport as collateral for payment, and patients may have difficulty getting their passport back without paying their medical bills in full.  Patients who do not pay their medical bills in full also run the risk of being barred from departing the country. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Air quality: Air pollution is a significant problem in Vietnam’s major cities, and you should consult your doctor prior to travel and consider the impact that seasonal smog and heavy particulate pollution may have on you. To obtain information on the air quality in Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh City, please follow the link to the Environmental Protection Agency’s AirNow website . Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City’s Air Quality Index (AQI) can be observed either by clicking on the Vietnam location on the map, or by selecting Hanoi or Ho Chi Minh City in the “Select a City” option on the upper right part of the page. The page provides AQI over the last 24-hour period as well as pollutant concentration and a downloadable historical document."
208,"The U.S. Department of State warns U.S. citizens of the high security threat level in Yemen due to terrorist activities, kidnappings, civil unrest, and landmines.  The Department urges U.S. citizens to avoid travel to Yemen and urges U.S. citizens currently living in Yemen to depart. All visitors to Yemen are required to obtain a visa prior to travel to Yemen.  U.S. citizens typically are issued visas that are valid for 30 days.  At the time of publication, the Embassy of Yemen in Washington, D.C. is not issuing tourist visas. For the most current and complete visa information, visit the Embassy of Yemen's website or call the Embassy of Yemen in Washington, D.C. at (202) 965-4760 ext. 2. Find information on dual nationality , prevention of international child abduction , and customs regulations on our websites. If you are in Yemen and have questions about your federal benefits, please contact FBU.Jerusalem@SSA.gov ."
209,"Please visit the Embassy's COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Zambia. Private medical clinics in major cities provide reasonable care, but major medical emergencies usually require medical evacuation to South Africa, Europe, or the United States. The nearest air ambulances are based in South Africa. Government hospitals and clinics are often understaffed and lack supplies. Basic medical care outside of major cities is extremely limited. Doctors and hospitals expect immediate cash payment for health services. For emergency services in Zambia, dial 999 for General Emergency, 991 for Police and 993 for Fire. Ambulance services are: not widely available and training and availability of emergency responders may be below U.S. standards. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. not staffed with trained paramedics and often have little or no medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for more information on type of insurance you should consider before you travel overseas. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check the Dangerous Drugs Act , or consult the Zambia Medicines Regulatory Authority to ensure the medication is legal in Zambia. The following diseases are prevalent: Malaria Rabies African trypanosomiasis Cholera Typhoid HIV Hepatitis A Hepatitis B African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya Dengue Tuberculosis Hantavirus Rift River Valley Ross River Virus Disease Leptospirosis Schistomsomiasis Measles Use the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended mosquito repellents and sleep under insecticide-impregnated mosquito nets.  Chemoprophylaxis is recommended for all travelers even for short stays. HIV/AIDS : Zambia has a very high burden of HIV. Travelers are generally at low risk for getting HIV but certain practices such as having unprotected sex or sharing needles with people who are or might be infected with HIV can significantly increase the risk of HIV transmission.  For more information on what you can do before and during travel to prevent HIV infection please visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website. There are shortages of medicine and medical supplies throughout Zambia. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Zambia. Vaccinations: Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The U.S. Embassy maintains a list of doctors and hospitals . We do not endorse or recommend any specific medical provider or clinic. Health facilities in general Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Private hospitals usually require advance payment or proof of adequate insurance before admitting a patient. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Pharmaceuticals Exercise caution when purchasing medication overseas.  Pharmaceuticals, both over the counter and requiring prescription in the United States, are often readily available for purchase with little controls. Counterfeit medication is common and may prove to be ineffective, the wrong strength, or contain dangerous ingredients.  Medication should be purchased in consultation with a medical professional and from reputable establishments. U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Zambia to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel ."
210,"Please visit the Embassy’s COVID-19 page for more information on COVID-19 in Zimbabwe. The public medical infrastructure in Zimbabwe is far below U.S. standards and medical facilities are limited. Provincial hospitals in rural areas are rudimentary and not equipped to care for serious injuries. Serious illnesses or injuries require medical evacuation to South Africa. You should: Bring medications sufficient for the duration of your trip in original packaging; Carry your prescriptions; Be prepared to pay up front for medical services; and Be prepared to arrange your own transportation to medical facilities. For emergency services in Zimbabwe dial 999 for medical or 995 for police. Ambulance services are: available in the urban areas of Harare and Bulawayo and the tourist area of Victoria Falls, but training and response times of emergency responders is below U.S. standards. not present throughout the rest of the country or are unreliable in most areas except major urban centers and Victoria Falls. not equipped with state-of-the-art medical equipment. Injured or seriously ill travelers may prefer to take a taxi or private vehicle to the nearest major hospital rather than wait for an ambulance. The power supply in Zimbabwe is 220 volt 50 Hz and unreliable. Travelers who use electrical medical devices should consider alternatives and verify with lodging accommodations that your needs can be met. We do not pay medical bills. Be aware that U.S. Medicare does not apply overseas. Most hospitals and doctors overseas do not accept U.S. health insurance. Medical Insurance: Make sure your health insurance plan provides coverage overseas. Most care providers overseas only accept cash payments. See our webpage for more information on insurance providers for overseas coverage . We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation. Always carry your prescription medication in original packaging, along with your doctor’s prescription. Check with the Ministry of Health and Child Care to ensure the medication is legal in Zimbabwe. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention closely monitors the prevalence of disease in Zimbabwe and updates the Travel Health Notice accordingly. Monitor the CDC website for current information. The following disease are prevalent: Leptospirosis Schistosomiasis African Sleeping Sickness (African Trypanosomiasis) African Tick-Bite Fever Chikungunya Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) Dengue Cholera Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Malaria Measles Rabies Typhoid Yellow Fever Marburg Hemorrhagic Fever Rift River Valley Hantavirus Tuberculosis (TB) Vaccinations : Be up-to-date on all vaccinations recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Further health information: World Health Organization U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Air Quality: Visit AirNow Department of State for information on air quality at U.S. Embassies and Consulates. The air quality varies considerably and fluctuates with the seasons. It is typically at its worst in the southern hemisphere winter. People at the greatest risk from particle pollution exposure include: Infants, children, and teens People over 65 years of age People with lung disease such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema People with heart disease or diabetes People who work or are active outdoors Health facilities in general: Public medical clinics lack basic resources and supplies. Private medical facilities in Harare, Bulawayo, and the tourist area of Victoria Falls can stabilize patients in emergencies. Hospitals and doctors normally require payment “up front” prior to service or admission. Credit card payment is not available. Most hospitals and medical professionals require cash payment. Generally, in hospitals only minimal staff is available overnight. Consider hiring a private nurse or having family spend the night with the patient, especially a minor child. Patients bear all costs for transfer to or between hospitals. Psychological and psychiatric services are limited, even in the larger cities, with hospital-based care only available through government institution Medical Tourism and Elective Surgery Medical tourism is a rapidly growing industry. People seeking health care overseas should understand that medical systems operate differently from those in the United States and are not subject to the same rules and regulations. Anyone interested in traveling for medical purposes should consult with their local physician before traveling and visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information on medical tourism. We strongly recommend supplemental insurance to cover medical evacuation in the event of unforeseen medical complications. Your legal options in case of malpractice are very limited in Zimbabwe. Pharmaceuticals U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration are responsible for rules governing the transport of medication back to the United States. Medication purchased abroad must meet their requirements to be legally brought back into the United States. Medication should be for personal use and must be approved for usage in the United States. Please visit the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Food and Drug Administration websites for more information. Zimbabwe does not allow the importation of Oxycodone, even with a prescription. Travelers should nor carry Oxycodone. Assisted Reproductive Technology and Surrogacy If you are considering traveling to Zimbabwe to have a child through use of assisted reproductive technology (ART) or surrogacy, please see our ART and Surrogacy Abroad page . There is no legal framework for foreigners or same-sex couples to pursue surrogacy in Zimbabwe. As a result, surrogacy agreements between foreign intending parents and gestational mothers are not enforced by Zimbabwe courts. If you decide to pursue parenthood in Zimbabwe via assisted reproductive technology (ART) with a gestational mother, be prepared for long and unexpected delays in documenting your child’s citizenship. Be aware that individuals who attempt to circumvent local law risk criminal prosecution. Water Quality In many areas, tap water is not potable. Bottled water and beverages are generally safe, although you should be aware that many restaurants and hotels serve tap water unless bottled water is specifically requested. Be aware that ice for drinks may be made using tap water. Adventure Travel Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Adventure Travel . CDC recommends that travelers going to Zimbabwe take prescription medicine to prevent malaria. Depending on the medicine you take, you will need to start taking this medicine multiple days before your trip, as well as during and after your trip. Talk to your doctor about which malaria medication you should take. HIV/AIDS: Zimbabwe has an estimated HIV prevalence of 12.6% for those over age 15. Visit the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website for more information about Resources for Travelers regarding specific issues in Zimbabwe."
